With VIP and early bird tickets already sold out, the seventh annual Maftown Heights set for Mary Fitzgerald Square on Friday is bound to be yet another memorable affair for fans of SA hip hop.Once again, an array of SA s biggest motswako hip hop stars such as Cassper Nyovest, Khuli Chana, Tuks, Fifi Cooper, Mo Molemi, Towedee Mac and JR will square off with their friends of motswako counterparts such as AKA, Kwesta, Nasty C, Black Les and Nadia Nakai. Tuks, who is one of the leaders of the motswako movement, promised his music fans nothing but the best set ever. This is going be Tuks like you have never experienced him before. It is going to be a proper and well-rehearsed Tuks set as I will be delivering some of the material from my new album, Botshe Botshe, the Monate Thwaa hit maker said. Over the years, the festival has celebrated the rising popularity of Tswana rap, while also showcasing the best of SA hip hop in general.This year the organiser of the show, Refiloe Ramogase, said while the event had always had a developmental role, having given a platform for the likes of Fifi Cooper, Cassper Nyovest and many others, the bulk of the spotlight this year would also be shone in the direction of emerging rappers, through the new kids on the block segment. We have always been the vehicle showcasing the future of SA hip hop, Ramogase said. This year we have DJ Speedsta s Mayo live performance and Super Fresh presenting the new wave of Motswako as part of the line up. We pride ourselves in being consistent leaders when it comes to showcasing and developing the SA hip hop future, with the likes of Cassper Noyvest and Fifi Cooper as some of the show s past successes. The founder of Dream Team SA, a talent management agency dedicated to SA hip hop also attributed the dominance of the genre to the fact that many of the country s leading stars had localised it and found their voice while also embracing the opportunities brought about by social media. Many of our artists are technologically savvy. They have embraced the opportunities brought by social media. Over the years, hip hop has gone from being at the bottom of the SA music culture to being the number one genre as a result of these two main things, he said.Apart from the best stage production, Ramogase promised fans a thrilling encounter with some of the key collaborations from SA rappers this year. The event is also another way of bringing rappers who have collaborated among one another under one roof, which allows music fans to experience this first hand. There are quite a few events where these collaborations can be witnessed, he said.SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@thenewage.co.za