Tourism product owners in the Hartbeespoort Dam area near Brits are sweating as some holidaymakers have cancelled their bookings after a ferry fire incident at the dam left four people dead last weekend.Hartbeespoort Dam is one of the prime tourist havens in the North West and is usually a hive of activity during the festive season. This owes much to its proximity to South Africa s economic hub, Gauteng.A leading tour operator in the province, Kagiso Legobe of Kay 2Ze Gee Tours, said that people should not look at the incident and let it ruin their holiday plans. We do acknowledge that the accident happened and it was for the first time that we have had an incident of this magnitude at Harties. However, we want to assure holidaymakers that steps are being taken to bolster safety for those who want to cruise, he said.Legobe said each ferry that would go on the water will have an accompanying boat as backup in cases of emergency. The idea is that there must also be regular water police with two-way radio communication systems. It also has to be stressed that boat clubs should have regular inspections to ensure that operators comply, he said.Early indications show that Prime Time, the luxury ferry that caught fire at the weekend, complyied with safety regulations and speculation is that the fire could have started on board and was not the engine. The reason we appeal to holiday makers to honour their bookings is that it is not only about boat cruising but there are a number of other packages that form part of the whole vacation. As such, cancellations will affect not only tour guides but other product owners because it means accommodation and food reservations will have to be cancelled, he said.For instance, Legobe s company offers a one hour boat cruise, cable way activities, a visit to the chameleon village, horse riding and many other things. Tourism is a timid business because under the present circumstances, you find out that it affects those employed as chefs, waiters and even the backroom staff. This affects families whose breadwinners were supposed to have a 13th cheque this festive season but will not because there is no money. We therefore appeal to people to come in the numbers and book for the various activities on offer just to enjoy themselves this festive season, he said.Prime Time was the biggest ferry at Hartbeespoort with a capacity of about 200 people.Investigations into the fire accident are done by the South African Maritime Safety Authority (Samsa). Initial indications are that the vessel named Prime Time, caught fire while cruising on the dam with 200 passengers on board. According to the Samsa surveyor who was at the scene, the vessel caught fire at the aft (the back of the vessel) where the kitchen, the bathrooms and the outboard motors (engines) were situated, Samsa spokesperson Tebogo Ramatjie said.Four women died in the accident. Ramatjie said three women drowned after a smaller boat that came to their rescue capsized while the last victim burnt to death when she was trapped in the burning ferry.The deceased are said to be from Rustenburg, Boksburg and Diepkloof. Samsa will also be investigating the cause of death of three people who drowned and one who died on board the vessel during the fire, Ramatjie said.He also said one injured person was taken to hospital.Ramatjie confirmed that the vessel was licensed, but Samsa was in the process of verifying its owners. We ensure that all boats in our waters are licensed and this was licensed, he said.Ramatjie said the small boat that capsized was in the vicinity and assisted when the vessel caught fire.Premier Supra Mahumapelo and Tourism MEC, Desbo Mohono have called for a thorough investigation into the cause of the ferry fire that left four women dead. On behalf of the North West provincial government, we send our condolences to the family affected by this tragedy. Our thoughts and prayers are with you during this difficult moment. We urge our police to ensure that the necessary investigations are conducted to determine the cause of the fire, Mahumapelo said.Mohono said it was unfortunate that such an incident happened at one of the province s foremost tourist attractions. We wish the other passenger who may be hurt a speedy recovery. Our heartfelt condolences go out to the families of the dearly departed, Mohono said.She thanked efforts by the emergency teams, which she said reacted in the nick of time, preventing further loss of life. More facts on the accident will be revealed after the authorities have done their investigation. At this point we urge everyone to treat this matter with the sensitivity it deserves and to allow the families to mourn in peace and to be supported, she said.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za