IT IS fast proving near impossible to find an Absa Premiership striker brave enough to set a target of goals for the season. However, Bidvest Wits player Thabang Monare, who is deployed as a boxto-box midfielder, said he wants to score 10 goals this season.The 27 year old, who is in his first season with the Clever Boys, has two goals in 10 appearances for the club so far this season. This is a big improvement if it was to be compared to the 23 matches he played for Cosmos last season, where he had four assists and no goals to show for his efforts. Given the amount of time he now spends in the opposition half, either creating or trying to score, Monare reckons he can score more goals for Gavin Hunt s side. The major difference to my time at Cosmos is the role I am playing at Wits. I get to be more involved, I touch the ball more. I am also thinking the box to box role suits me more because I have the energy and I just love to play, Monare said. I am actually not happy with my goal return because I have been in the opposition box a lot and there are chances I missed due to some hasty decisions. I am working on that and I hope by the end of this season, I would have scored at least six or eight more goals. My understanding with my midfield partners and other members of the team make me believe that it is possible. We are always creating chances. Since his move to Wits, Monare said he has grown in belief that he can make the national squad or even go as far as Europe to ply his trade. He has been soliciting advice from teammate and former Tottenham Hotspur defender Bongani Khumalo about what it takes to make it overseas. I am very happy here at Wits. The team has brought so much belief in me. It makes me believe that if I continue working like this, I might get a call up to Bafana Bafana. I also would love to play overseas. We have players like Khumalo and Darren Keet who have been overseas. I am always asking about what it takes to make it there because that is a dream I have to play in England. mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane