The ANC s succession debate will be among the topmost priorities for the party s veterans in the run-up to the ANC s consultative conference next year, ANC stalwart Wally Serote said yesterday.Speaking in the wake of a meeting between the 101 group of ANC stalwarts and the ANC s national executive committee (NEC), Serote said that the veterans would keep a close eye on current events unfolding within the ANC with a view to seek an audience with the party on who will take over the reins of the ANC next year. Who shall lead the ANC in the future is determined on its election processes, which will become an issue we will discuss at the national consultative conference, Serote said.He said the veterans and the ANC s NEC agreed to visit ANC structures, including branches, in furtherance of their intention to check the pulse of the party in light of current political events. What we agreed upon as both veterans and members of the NEC is to visit the branches. Serote s comments come against the background of the ANC s NWC having made a concession to the veterans on their call for a consultative conference, which will now form part of the party s policy conference in June next year.Serote, making reference to the NWC s compromise on the matter, said that ANC veterans welcomed the move. The meeting on Friday provided us with a very important opportunity of finding a way forward for us as the veterans and jointly with the ANC national working committee (NWC). The issue of the national consultative conference has been agreed to by the NWC. What we have to do now is to work out in the greatest of detail the modalities, what does it mean, what are the objectives, what are the time frames, and to discuss what the agenda is for the veterans. Serote said that while he could not comment on the shock motion of no confidence tabled against President Jacob Zuma at the NEC meeting, the veterans committed themselves to help steer the ANC out of the woods. We veterans confine ourselves to a space that we think we are capable of handling. In front of us, at the moment, it is key to take the ANC out of the crisis that it s in. With the national consultative conference, working out the time frames of relationship between the recommendations of the conference with the national policy conference. Serote said that the ANC veterans would work towards seeing the ANC recover from its election results slump. The veterans and stalwarts are focused on creating conditions for the ANC to be relevant again. The ANC must be in close contact with the people of the country, it must work out a programme of action on how it s going to serve the people. At the same time, it must be in a position to lead. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za