A few scares were always expected when the Springboks faced the Barbarians and coach Allister Coetzee is happy with how his team survived. The Boks came back from a 17-12 halftime score to later wipe out a 31-19 deficit, eventually playing to a pulsating 31-31 draw.Towering lock Pieter-Steph du Toit, Roelof Smit, Sergeal Petersen, Francois Venter and Rohan Janse van Rensburg scored the Springboks tries to ensure that the Boks go on to face England on the back of an encouraging performance. As a result of the fightback, Coetzee has praised his team s character, bemoaning the amount of possession that his youthful team gave away. Obviously not happy with the draw, but there were a lot of pleasing aspects to our game tonight. The first of that is the way we came back in the last 10 to 15 minutes. When you are 11 points behind and you ve got a young and inexperienced team, it easily could ve gone the other way. But the players showed great fighting spirit to come back, Coetzee said. I think the other pleasing aspect was the fact that we scored five tries, spotting the space and then we got the ball into that space. And we also left a couple of tries out there. The most disappointing thing was the amount of possession we turned over and it s very detrimental against a Barbarians side who are fearless, who have nothing to lose and want to play with the ball. As things stand, Coetzee will welcome his overseas based players such as JP Pietersen, Francois Louw, Steven Kitshoff, Johan Goosen and Bryan Habana to name a few, while winger Jamba Ulengo and Rohan Janse van Rensburg are also expected to remain with the team ahead of the Test against England.Coetzee said his team will have to work on keeping the ball against Eddie Jones team. That is something that we ll have to work hard on this week (for the clash against England). But having said that, it s been a great game of rugby and I think the spectators really got value for their money today, Coetzee said.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane