WOMEN like compliments and being told how different they are from every other woman. But this it would seem is not enough to get them to level the playing fields of dating, command control and be seen as a must-have by their male conquests.But now, thanks to a new book, Men Don t Love Women Like You: The Brutal Truth About Dating, by American author DL Lambert this unequal share of power between the sheets may now become a thing of the past. Described by one reader as an entertaining, sugarcoat free read , the book is a must for single women who want to learn to spin the wheel of manipulation in their relationship, play the game of love with leverage and finally get the guy to commit.From a detailed blueprint of how to conduct yourself on a date to the do s and don ts of a longterm relationship seems to be going nowhere, Lambert lays it all out for women looking to get men eating out of the palm of their hands. Bound to ruffle a few feathers, he even insists that in the beginning of most relationships most men are not necessarily looking for a relationship but sex. Most men don t love you, they love what you do for them, know the difference, he said.Lambert says when it comes to wooing a potential partner, most women turn out plainly typical. Plainly put, they end up being as ordinary in their pursuits as the women they claim to be better than. The brutal truth we men refuse to tell you, is that you are painfully typical. You flirt like every other woman. You hold the same conversations as every other woman. You read the same typical relationship advice and try the same tricks as every other woman, he goes on to say.The fear of rejection, he says is among the main reasons many women are stuck where they are, with the same man that doesn t really want them. Males are winning because they understand what women want to hear and tell it to them. Women on the other hand know how men are, yet they continue to fall for the same tricks. Looking to empower women to create standards for themselves and help them build their roster for as many men as they want to bring into their next screening stage , Lambert has famously coined what he refers to as the place holder , seat filler and the game changer which he goes at great length to explain in the book. You are the placeholder, that girl who fills a man s needs until the game changer arrives. A man will date you, sleep with you, even enter into a relationship but you are not what he really wants. You are a practice woman, preparing him for his future wife. A game changer on the other hand doesn t just hope and pray that the next man turns out to be authentic only to settle with a random guy. She gets typical results and is able to own and take charge of her situation in a relationship, he says. In a nutshell, what Lambert wants any woman that has ever felt unappreciated to know, is that men aren t actually that hard to figure out. They play, but they don t play for long. No man is emotionally unavailable. No man is unready to settle down. When a man tells you he s not looking for anything serious, he means with you . -tankisok@thenewage.co.za