The case of the two men accused of forcing a black man into a coffin has been postponed to January, 25 next year. The two will not apply for bail and will stay in police custody until they appear in court again.The labourer forced into a coffin with a snake by two Middelburg farmers is still traumatised by their inhuman treatment. Relating his ordeal on Tuesday, Victor Rethabile Mlotshwa said he did not even have the energy to pick up his cellphone because he was still haunted by what happened to him three months after the fact. I am still traumatised and I don t have the energy to relive the incident that happened to me. I am still healing, Mlotshwa said.Furthermore Mlotshwa&#8217;s mother had to be to hospital as she could not handle the trauma.A harrowing video of his trauma has gone viral on social media.It shows two white farmers, Willem Oosthuizen and Theo Martins Jackson, beating up Mlotshwa and forcing him into the coffin.Oosthuizen and Martins have since been arrested and made a court appearance on Monday. The matter has been remanded.Police said the two farmers turned themselves in after the video went viral.In a sworn statement to the police, Mlotshwa, who resides in the informal settlement in Blinkpan, said he was afraid to open a case due to the death threats he received when he was tortured by the farmers.The incident happened on August 17.Mlotshwa said he took a shortcut across a farm in Middleburg when he suddenly saw two 4&#215;4 vehicles driving behind him.He said they caught up with him when he had reached the R555 main road between Middleburg and Bethal, where he wanted to hitch a ride. He said the 4x4s were driven by two white men. There was also a black man with them who Mlotshwa knew because they resided in the same place.Both Land Cruisers stopped next to me and without saying a word they started punching me and I fell to the ground, Mlotshwa said in a statement. They kicked me all over my body as I tried to run away. He said the men tied his hands with a cable to the tow bar of one of the Land Cruiser and drove on the gravel road.The men stopped in a secluded place, untied him and threatened to shoot him if he tried to escape. The men were armed with firearms, Mlotshwa said. I cried and pleaded with them not to kill me, he said. They took out a 5 litre container with petrol and threatened to pour the contents over me and set me alight. Mlotshwa said one of the white men said they should bring out a snake and put it inside the coffin. Once placed inside the coffin he tried to get out without success.Mlotshwa said the farmers tortured him for about an hour while the third man was taking a video. In the process, he sustained bruises to his face and chest.He saw the video last week when his younger brother showed him the footage. I was humiliated and people were laughing at me when the video started making the rounds, Mlotshwa said in his affidavit.TNA Reporter| news@thenewage.co.za