Concern has been raised by residents over the state of health in the province in some districts.This comes after numerous complaints over shortages of healthcare practitioners, long queues, and patients having to travel long distances to access healthcare services.The department said the growing need for access to healthcare, and the increasing burden of chronic diseases, were among the reasons contributing to long queues and poor services to patients.A local resident Pinky Letlape said: I never go to the clinic unless it is something gravely serious. I wait until I can have money to purchase medication at the local pharmacy. I don t have time to spend the entire day at a clinic and then come back home with a packet of Panado. It takes what feels like an eternity to even move up a single place. The department said staff shortages were not the main reason for the long queues. The reason for this is that if you compare the present with previous years, the department now has more nurses than in the past. The main reason for long queues is the sudden increase in the quadruple burden of disease, especially chronic illnesses, departmental spokesperson Tebogo Lekgthwane said.Lekgethwane said many people were now suffering from chronic illnesses which had not been an issue about five years ago.This, he says, has had a lot to do with more people getting ill. The number of people suffering chronic illnesses unfortunately has not matched the number of health professionals we have. The department is doing its best to increase the number of nurses by having more students absorbed in nursing colleges, he said.Mounting medical malpractice lawsuits were also threatening to collapse the provincial department health system. He said the department was implementing the central chronic medication distribution and delivery model to relieve workload at health facility level to reduce the cost of accessing healthcare and to reducing the burden of long queues . Since the inception of the programme this year, more than 80000 patients have registered and will no longer have to queue at clinics to receive their medication, Lekgethwane said.He bemoaned the fact that the department continued to lose money to lawsuits due medical negligence.The department said it had improved accommodation for health professionals, providing rural allowance for nurses among its strategies to recruit and retain staff.The department has introduced patient-transport model to be used to ferry patients to health facilities.There have been complaints from pensioners and unemployed residents in some districts claiming that they have had to hire vehicles to transport them to the nearest facility to access and collect medications.In 2016 alone, the department has already spent more than R20m on pay-outs for medical malpractices. This happened in a period of five months, from April to the end of August.Spokesperson for the provincial department of social development and health, Dr Tutu Faleni, said innovative solutions should be found to curb the increasing cost of litigations against the department.According to Faleni medical malpractice lawsuits have increased from 27 cases in 2012 to 138 cases in August 2016. This means that the North West health department is five times more negligent than it was five-and-a-half years ago, Faleni said.Lerato Dialeleratod@thenewage.co.za