Eskom wants South Africa s next nuclear power station to be up and running by 2025.This was disclosed at a media briefing yesterday. At the same information session, the Energy Ministry said it was planning to consult the public about the country s nuclear plans.Eskom group executive Matshela Koko said the power utility is pushing ahead with plans to have an operational nuclear plant by 2025.He said: We are going out for proposals before the end of this year. By the time I go on holiday the inquiry will be out. Koko said this process would take about six months to complete.Asked if South Africa could not go without this envisaged nuclear plant, he said that the country has to answer that question. Do you believe in global warming? I do and if I do I m not going to build another coal station. I ll find the cheapest nuclear to build. He said Eskom wants the planned nuclear reactor to be operational by 2025. And we do that together with building an additional 55000MW of renewables. So it s not an exclusive exercise. We re building a minimum of 55000MW of renewables up to 150MW plus nuclear. It s not an either or. He said that if a reactor was not built, South Africa would not be able to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and load shedding would be likely.However, he said he was not going hell for leather for nuclear. We are not married to it. It must make sense to the country. We must be able to afford it. It must be able to decarbonise the country. Koko was asked after the briefing if he was the next Eskom CEO given that the incumbent Brian Molefe has announced he is stepping down.He said: I am African, it s going to be very disrespectful for me to even venture into that space. We have a chief executive in the job. I wish he would not go he s the best guy we have had. Asked if he would like the job, Koko said: It s neither here or there. I just don t want Brian to leave. He said he would consider the CEO position if approached. I don t want Brian to leave. I don t want to be CEO at the expense of BrianMolefe. Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson said that the Cabinet had agreed Eskom would be the owner, operator and procurer for nuclear power plants.-Dennis Cruywagen