As CRICKET South Africa (CSA) consulted their legal team on whether to appeal Faf du Plessis charge of ball tampering, Proteas coach Russell Domingo decided to focus on the third and final Test against Australia at the Adelaide Oval tomorrow.Du Plessis was yesterday found guilty of breaching Article 2.2.9 of the ICC code of conduct, had three demerit points added to his disciplinary record and fined 100% of his match fee but he is available to take on the Aussies.Speaking yesterday, Domingo said his players were fully focused on issues they can control ahead of tomorrow s historic day/night Test despite the fact that the build-up has been highlighted by several off-field disruptions.While he admitted their preparations have not been ideal, Domingo said they remain determined to finish the tour on a successful note and hand Australia a rare Test whitewash. It been an interesting few days, he said. We have had a wonderful tour and we have played great cricket. We have had long discussions and our focus now is purely on cricket. I can t comment too much on it issues related to Faf du Plessis hearing, our focus is entirely on the Test match ahead, he said.Domingo also praised his players for professional conduct in Australia despite having been under constant scrutiny from the local media since Du Plessis was charged. The way we have been playing and the way we have carried ourselves, not just this on tour but on previous tours where we have been under the pump. We have been to India which was a tough tour but the team s dignity was upheld at all times. The team conducted themselves in a professional manner and we have always been a tightly knit unit. Hopefully this incident galvanises the team more, he said.The Proteas will play an official match with the pink ball. Domingo said it was a challenge they will embrace despite the novelty and hype around untested conditions. That s the attitude we are going into the match with, it s just another ball. It might be a different colour, but we are playing on a cricket pitch and they have all played under lights before. We are the first South African team to play a day-night Test match in Adelaide, we have a great opportunity to beat Australia 3-0 for the first time in history. That is what our focus is on at the moment, we are not too concerned whether it s pink, white or red, we want to play. MAHLATSE MPHAHLELEmahlatsem@thenewage.co.za