Technology is a right and a necessity, not a luxury, for the development of the youth and the nation, Deputy Minister of telecommunications and postal services Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize said in the wake of Wi-Fi blackouts in parts of Johannesburg for almost a month. The youth are the future and the future is digital, Mkhize said, adding that the government was going all out to make the internet accessible to as many people as possible.Research by her department revealed that the number of South Africans actively accessing the internet had grown by 1.9 million from 24.9 million in January 2015 to 26.8 million in January 2016.The majority (92%) of South Africa s adult population owns a phone whether dumb, feature or smart.Smartphones take the lion s share of this at 60%. Only 3% own a TV streaming product (like Apple TV) and 1% own a wearable.Just under 50% of the total population (26.8 million representing 49%) in South Africa is considered an active internet user. Active social media users across web and mobile stand at 13 million (24%), while mobile social media users stand at 10 million (18%).Mkhize lauded the Data Must Fall campaign championed by Tbo Touch. Sometimes we take the end user gadgets, leave them at community level and find they are not utilised effectively because it is too costly to sustain the volumes of data people need. We don t want people to be disconnected. It s about development and inclusion of those without technology at their disposal, Mkhize said.She pointed to the unacceptable digital gap as highlighted by Sandton which had developed over the years leaving Alexandra and Diepsloot far behind. We need to close the gap and provide technology for all. The Data Must Fall campaign is helping us say, even the poorest of the poor must have access to data, she said.Mkhize said her department encouraged municipalities to install Wi-Fi in communities. We encourage residents to use ICT labs near to them to acquire basic skills. In big cities like Johannesburg and Cape Town, there are many opportunities initiated by the government we encourage people to say it s about their literacy for the things they need today and tomorrow, she said.She said the postal office future is digital as distance learning students use services to email their assignments.A recent study conducted in South Africa by global market research company Ipsos on behalf of PayPal and FNB has revealed a growing interest by South African internet users in shopping online.Ntombi Nkosintombin@thenewage.co.za