He ignores when you try to future talk Does he get uneasy and avoids you whenever you try and talk about your future to him? Or he dodges the topic every time you bring it up? Be alert, ladies! He might have something cooking in his mind. It could be a sign that he doesn t want to marry youHe never makes you meet his family Isn t it a bit absurd that your whole blood line knows about him but you re restricted to just his friends? Take it as an indication when he gets resistant about you meeting his parents or anybody in his family. I am too young to think about such responsibilities There s no such thing as too young or too soon . If you guys have been dating for a long time now but still he is not prepared for it, he might never be.He sounds to be anti-marriage types Are his thoughts on the M word not too nice? Is getting married the last option on his list? Or does he consider marriage as a suicide mission? Then, you have a reason to worry. Such cold thoughts can lead to your future, not so bright.He is not interested in your future plans You can write a book when it comes to him and what he wants to do in future, but does he have any idea what you have in store for yours? Is he even interested? Think about it.Your dates are just about the bed You have planned a candle light dinner in the most romantic restaurant of the town but he just dodges it and your so called date ends in the bed with popcorn and Netflix? Sure, it s the most comforting idea for a date but not always?He never utters those magical words Do you express your love to him verbally time and again but he ignores it in the most subtle way possible? Is he restricting himself to say those three magical words to you? This is a sign you must watch out for.He wants to live-in first If he is coaxing you to live-in, it could be because he wants a dress rehearsal before the finale. But hey? Marriage is not a show and testing compatibility this way is just not right. What if things don t work out?You are a part of his happy times but never his sorrows Are you a part of his promotion celebrations but not his stressful moments? Like it s said you can share happiness with anybody but it takes someone special to share your struggles with . So if you are not the special someone with whom he can share his sorrows, you have reasons to worry.This article first appeared on The Times of India