ALL roads lead to Walter Sisulu Square inSoweto, where the kwaito and house music industry will honour departed kwaito star Mandoza with a lifetime achievement award at the first annual Mzansi Kwaito and House Awards (MKHMA) tomorrow.Last month, the Nkalakatha hit maker who died of cancer last month was also honoured with a lifetime achievement award at the MTV African Music awards at the TicketPro Dome.Speaking to The New Age ahead of the kwaito awards, founder of the awards Perfecta Khumalo said the awards seek to celebrate the talent that exists in SA townships. We have decided to take the award to the heart of Soweto because this is where the awards belong, among the people.Mandoza will be honoured for his great contribution to the success of kwaito music. The plan was to honour him with an award,but we have changed that to a lifetime achievement award, Khumalo said.Veteran kwaito artist Sbusiso Ntshangase, aka Sbu Malwayer,welcomed the gesture to immortalise his legacy with a lifetime achievement award, though he decried the sickness that has become South Africa s obsession with acknowledging artists when they are no longer with us. It s good that Mandoza will be honoured with a lifetime achievement award, but I am sad that it comes at a time when is dead. This has become a sickness in the country that we only recognise people when they are no longer with us, he said.Last weekend, veteran kwaito artist, Sbusiso Ntshangase, aka Sbu Malwayer was among other veterans of the genre on the line up of the second annual 100% Pure Kwaito concert at Taliban in Pretoria.This week, the Ama-lawyer hit maker of the 90s will be in Mpumalanga. Sbu promised music fans a night filled with nostalgia as he dishes some of his hits from the bygone era. Who said kwaito is dead? This is just aperception rather than a reality. Kwaito is an evolving music genre that finds itself in hip hop artists such as Cassper Nyovest, Kwesta and many others who are giving it their own spin.You have the Durban sound which is part of the kwaito evolution. I blame radio stations for not playing enough kwaito, he said.The MKHMA were launched at Sandton Convention Centre with a nominations party on September 8. The categories are divided into three groups, house, kwaito and general.The general group includes categories like best music video, best collaboration and song of the year. the genre-specific categories include best male and female DJ/ artist in the respective genres as well as best newcomer, best mapantsula dance group and interestingly, best new age kwaito.Artists like Black Coffee, DJ Zinhle, Bucie,Heavy K, Trompies, Big Nuz, Thebe, Revolution and more have been nominated.The nominees in the best new age kwaito category are Major League DJs for Slyza Tsotsi, Riky Rick for Boss Zonke and Duncan for Tsikitsiki, Kwesta for Ngudu and KO for Caracara.&nbsp;SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyavongas@thenewage.co.za