A number of cash-strapped universities, which have been forced to administer their end-of-the-year examinations at off campus venues, are having to fork out thousands of rands for hiring the premises and to transport students to the exam centres.Private venue owners are cashing in as the universities conduct some exams off campus due to fear of disruptions on campus as the #FeesMustFall protests have not died down at some institutions.Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, which has more than 20000 students revealed that its students would write exams at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium and at another undisclosed venue. This is for the university administered exams and not necessarily the faculty administered exams. NMMU is using the stadium as its main venue for the academic completion plan following the volatility and incidents of continued disruptions by protesting #FeesMustFall students previously, NMMU spokesperson Zandile Mbabela, said.She said the stadium offered a safe and secure environment for staff and students writing the 2016 final exams. The stadium costs around R54000 to host 250 people per day but the university said individuals and businesses across the city had contributed funds so it could afford to conduct exams off campus. The university made a call to the greater Nelson Mandela Bay community for assistance as part of its Support- 4NMMU campaign. Venues being used around the city came about as part of this. The NMB stadium is being offered at a fraction of the normal rates, she said.Exams commence on November 25 at the institution. The University of the Western Cape (UWC) which commenced with its exams on November 7 revealed that it had hired four off campus venues to accommodate students for exams. Examinations have been going well without interruptions. The turnout at examinations is also good. Newspapers have reported on protests at UWC and the volatile situation on the UWC campus in the past month or so. Hence, the decision to write exams at off campus facilities, UWC spokesperson Luthando Tyhalibongo, said.UWC exams venues are at Bellville Civic Centre, Proteaville Recreation Hall, Kasselsvlei Primary School and the United Reform Church.Tyhalibongo said that the exams would run until December 9 while the second sitting of exams takes place next year in January and February.The Tshwane University of Technology s 16 000 Soshanguve North and South campus students are writing their examinations at the Tshwane Events Centre due to fears of disruptions.BATANDWA MALINGO batandwam@thenewage.co.za