Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga issued a stern warning to teachers who sexually abused pupils and those with fraudulent qualifications.Motshekga said 33 teachers had already been struck off the roll for offences including having sexual relationships with pupils, some of whom fell pregnant. She was speaking at the handover of the R24m state-of-theart Bhungu Junior Primary School in Libode in the Eastern Cape last week. I am saddened to report that all is not well in some of our schools. We have pockets of excellence in certain areas and pockets of disasters in other areas. A report released by the South African Council of Educators (Sace) showed at least 20 teachers have been plying their trade using fraudulent qualifications, often from the University of Zululand, Unisa and the University of North West, Motshekga said.She said this embarrassed the department and called on teachers with fraudulent qualifications to resign immediately. If they are unearthed by us they will face the full might of the law. Would-be fraudsters must never even attempt to enter the system and rob our children of quality education. The good news is that SACE reported that 33 teachers were struck off the roll indefinitely for offences including sexual relationships and impregnation of pupils, rape, selling drugs to schoolchildren, indecent assault and severe assault of pupils, Motshekga said.She said the names of the teachers were forwarded to the Department of Social Development to be included in the register of persons declared unfit to work with children.Motshekga said SACE reported that 593 complaints involving teachers were processed in the past year alone, with a total of 77 hearings instituted and resulting in 70 teachers being found guilty. For the period under review, from April 1 to November 10, a total of 50 sexual abuse cases and 140 cases of corporal punishment of pupils were received, she said.Motshekga said the scourge of sexual violence including rape, sexual abuse, sexual assault, and impregnating pupils is an insidious attack on pupils human rights. We know this is just the tip of the iceberg. Such harassment and abuse has devastating consequences for the health and education of the pupils, mainly girls, who experience it, Motshekga said. As Minister of Basic Education, it is my duty to protect all pupils from all types of abuse. Today, I appeal to the conscience of all teachers. Do the right thing, teach our pupils and do not abuse them. In cases where the conscience of teachers fail them, we will be left with no choice but to act speedily and remove the cancerous tumour in our system. provinces@thenewage.co.za