THE Limpopo pupils implicated in the leaking of a maths question paper will not rewrite it but will instead face disciplinary action and have the appropriate sanctions imposed on them, the Department of Basic Education said yesterday.The leaked question paper was discovered at a Giyani High School, where it emerged that pupils had access to it prior to writing the examination. A Ministerial Investigation Team found that the leak did not go beyond 100 pupils at 10 schools in the area. Despite the incident, the department said, the examinations had gone well. I would like to thank all of those involved in the exam system for ensuring that there were no other major challenges reported during the 2016 NSC. Those moderators, invigilators, officials and those involved in the security and transportation of the exam papers have all contributed to the success of these examinations, Minister Angie Motshekga said.Tinyiko Elphas Khosa, 52, the suspect linked to the leaked examination paper was denied bail last week at the Giyani Magistrate s Court and remains in custody. He is expected back in court on December 19.The department said the licence of the New Era College in Malamulele, owned by Khosa, would be reviewed. According to the Hawks, another arrest was imminent as investigations continued. Although the examinations are to officially conclude today, some pupils expressed relief after sitting for their last paper, Afrikaans, yesterday.Aurelio Mokwatedi, 18, from Pro Arte High School in Pretoria said he was going to relax for a few days before starting his search for a holiday job. I will see how things go but I was planning on getting a job just to make some extra money during the holidays, he said.Today 108 543 candidates will sit for their agricultural practices in the morning, while the last paper, design, will be written in the afternoon. There are about 47 400 markers at 140 marking centres around the country who will be marking 11 million examination scripts. Marking will start on December 1 and the results released on January 4.-LILLIAN SELAPISA