THE Communication Workers Union (CWU) yesterday delivered a stinging rebuke to the leadership of President Jacob Zuma.Speaking at the union s headquarters in Johannesburg, CWU president Clyde Mervin said that the ANC, under Zuma s leadership, had been lurching from crisis to crisis. It is for this reason that Mervin said Zuma should leave office. Principally, the CWU believes that the president should step down with immediate effect. That s our view. However, members of the union are still in discussion on the matter and we ll be taking an NEC decision, he said.Mervin said that while the union remained on the fence over who should lead the ANC at the party s elective conference next year, he said that the union would support whoever would commit to meeting its demands. There are a few things we want this candidate to promise us. This candidate must promise us free education, banning labour brokers, scrapping e-tolls and implementing the National Health Insurance (NHI). Mervin s comments come against the background of the union s umbrella body Cosatu gearing up for its last central executive committee (CEC) meeting of the year next week.With another Cosatu affiliate, the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) sharing the same views as the CWU on the leadership of Zuma, the trade union federation said that it would not stifle debate on Zuma if its affiliates brought it up.CWU general secretary Aubrey Tshabalala said that the ANC-led tripartite alliance was in disarray.He said that Cosatu s CEC meeting should give urgent attention to the matter. The question of this marriage must be revisited. Is it in the best interests of workers or is it in the interests of business and white monopoly capital? Tshabalala asked.He said that he regarded Zuma as the ANC s biggest Achilles heel and the party s poor performance in the local government elections bore testament to this. We have been limping from one crisis to another. From the days we were told swimming pools are fire pools, from murdering masses of people at Marikana, to the collapse of the alliance. The ANC is losing its grip on the metros. It s under a particular leadership and you can t avoid that. Tshabalala, making reference to the ANC s 2007 Polokwane conference, said that the union regretted punting Zuma for ANC president. Our wounds as workers are still fresh from the blank cheque we were made to sign going to Polokwane and Mangaung, he said.Tshabalala also touched base on State Security Minister David Mahlobo s rhino poaching pickle. He said that while he appreciated Mahlobo s call for police to investigate allegations of his links to a rhino horn trafficker, he found it disconcerting that Mahlobo as minister of the state security agency did not know of the alleged smuggler s activities. We are left perplexed as to how the number one spy in the country did not detect a rhino poacher operating right under his nose, he said.-Bonolo Selebano