In his book Long Walk to Freedom, Nelson Mandela described Qunu as being situated in a grassy valley crisscrossed by clear streams and overlooked by green hills.And a resident of this Eastern Cape rural community believes the icon s description of the area has the potential to draw the attention of tourists from all over the world.Nokwanele Dalizulu described Qunu as an international flag that attracts everyone.However, she is concerned about youth unemployment and crime which are major problems for the area. The King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality, under which Qunu falls, has a population of 451 710, with 74% being under the age of 35.Qunu, Madiba s village, has an unemployment rate of 44%. Although the area has essential services such as electricity, Dalizulu said the national government should develop the area through tourism. Tata Mandela left a legacy for us.The tourists are coming in but we lack development. The municipality has plans to attract tourists to the area and part of the attractions would be the Mandela Museum, which ranked eighth on the top 10 lists of attractions in the province, and The Hole in the Wall situated along the coastline.The Wild Coast region, with its rural rondavels and forestry that includes prehistoric cycads, sneezewood and yellowwood trees, and the presence of the fish eagle presents impressive tourist potential. Qunu is the home of legends and various departments are involved in its development. Starting at Mbizana and recognising the contribution of stalwarts like OR Tambo, Nelson Mandela and Raymond Mhlanga and all those ANC veterans who contributed to the struggle, Sizwe Kupelo, spokesperson for the Eastern Cape Premier, said.With links to such giants in SA history, Qunu should be utilised and investment in the area should be a priority. The re-opening of the refurbished Bhunga Building aims to expand the experience of visitors who wish to learn more about the immense contribution and legacy of Madiba. Acting spokesperson for the Department of Arts and Culture, Lisa Combrink, said the Department of Rural Development has a vital role to play in ensuring Qunu and areas like it have the necessary tools to facilitate the infrastructure to enable progress.Rural Development and Land Reform Minister Gugile Nkwinti recently handed over a state-of-the-art dairy parlour to the community of Mantusini, near Port St Johns, under the One Household, One Hectare programme. We are happy to see this dairy parlour opened today and we are confident our community will truly benefit and prosper. In 1994 we said a better life for all and this is that better life and this theme should be sung louder than ever, Nkwinti said.news@thenewage.co.za