If it ain t broke, don t fix it. The National Soccer League (NSL) seemingly followed this adage when they re-elected Irvin Khoza and four executive committee members for another four-year term in office at their elective conference in Fourways, Johannesburg yesterday.The NSL elections concluded a quadrennial general meeting, which deliberated on several matters including presenting the financial reports of the previous year. An elated Khoza, who was elected unopposed, revealed plans for the new term and also hinted on an impending announcement by broadcast partners SuperSport International. I don t want to steal their thunder, our partners SuperSport will give clarity on January 28, Khoza said. I feel honoured to be given a new mandate to continue to serve the members. I would like to also welcome the new individuals in the executive committee. I believe that as the PSL, we are on the right path. We are growing but we cannot be complacent. We are entering a new era whereby it can no longer be business as usual. The executive committee comprises Kaizer Motaung, Mato Madlala, Stanley Matthews, David Thidiela and new members Jose Ferreira, Rejoice Simelane and Khumbulani Konco. Khoza said the league was waiting for a report from acting CEO Mato Madlala, which will guide the executive on the time frames regarding the appointment of the new CEO. I know from the outside, the PSL football looks easy to administer, but it is not, Khoza said. We ve had a lot of highly qualified people coming to assist us to streamline our administration. But it takes someone who understands the culture of football. Ms Mato Madlala comes as a club chairperson, who understands development, cash flow, the policy charters and so on. We ve been taking advantage of her skills as an accountant. She s tried and tested in her roles and she has done a wonderful job. In three or four months we will be able to pronounce on the new CEO. The PSL season was scheduled to end with the Nedbank Cup final on June 3. But the new estimation is that it might finish on June 17 due to the Mamelodi Sundowns fixture scheduling. The initial estimate is that the league might finish on June 17. But there might be a change depending on the circumstances, factoring in the Sundowns participation in the Fifa Club World Cup and in the Nedbank Cup, Khoza said. We also have to accommodate the Africa Cup of Nations recess in January as some of the players might be playing in the tournament. So that has affected our schedule. kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha