Well travelled PSL coach Kosta Papic is bringing his attack mineded philosophy to the National First Division (NFD) as he leads Kwa Zulu Natal side Royal Eagles.Eagles have already scored 26 goals in the league so far,with Sedwyn George and Raymond Monama providing the bulk of the goals. George leads the pack with nine goals for the KZN outfit.The coach who previously worked with Orlando Pirates, Maritzburg United, Polokwane City and Black Leopards hasn&#8217;t lost his lust for attack minded football.The Serbian coach said that he always wants to attack and score goals.&#8221; But at the same time, you must think about your defence&#8221; Papic said. So far the team is not looking bad, but there are a lot of things that need to be improved. So far we have been coping, the results that are coming, I must be happy. But I still believe we have more things to show than what we have shown so far, Papic said.He said that the team was not thinking about individuals in the team and he does not like pin pointing individual performances. The coach also said that playing in the NFD is very difficult and that sacrifices have to be made. But life is like that, you never know what s going to happen in your future. You must be ready to prepare yourself to sacrifice, for you and for your family. You know what you want to achieve, you must prepare yourself , please do that for everybody. If they understand that philosophy then it s must easier for us as a club to achieve our goals. Papic concluded.Eagles are third on the log table after playing 10 games. The team has won 5 matches drawing thrice and losing twice.They travel away to their coastal rivals on Saturday as they face the Eastern Capes Mthatha Bucks at the Mthatha Stadium.They will look to continue their rich goal form after netting four goals in their home ground at the Harry Gwala stadium against Milano FC.Bucks come to the game with two drawn games with their last game ending in a one all draw at the New Peter Mokaba Stadium with Magesi FC.Kick off for the game is at 15:30 &nbsp;