Pioneer Food, Astral Foods and Rhodes Food expect the severe drought and weak economic growth to weigh on their businesses in the 2017 financial year, the companies said yesterday after reporting results. An El Ni o weather pattern, which ended in May, triggered drought conditions across the southern African region that hit the staple, maize, and other crops and dented economic growth, which is expected to be 0.5% this year, down from a target of 0.9% the Treasury set in February.Shares in Pioneer Food rose 1.73% to R164.78, while Rhodes Food increased 1.82% to R28 in early trade.Poultry producer Astral, which is weighing job cuts, fell 0.66% to R120.50. The weakened state of consumer spending is unlikely to improve due to poor economic growth and higher unemployment which will continue to constrain an increase in the per capita consumption of poultry, Astral said. High maize and feed prices will continue for at least the first half of 2017 on the back of the severe drought. Pioneer, which makes foods such as maize meal, pasta and juices, said high maize prices and a reduced raisin crop would hurt performance in the first half of the new financial year.Rhodes, which reported a 50% rise in normalised diluted headline earnings a share to 126.5 cents for the year ended September, said the drought could hurt its production costs and volumes in the year ahead if there is no improvement in the weather . Global Trader equities analyst Paul Chakaduka said, A lot of the food producers have done reasonably well within the context and the environment in which they find themselves, however we need a better crop coming in this year for these guys to survive and for them to remain relatively competitive. The environment remains very uncertain for them. The government expects the 2016 maize harvest to be 28% lower at 7.16 million tons, with an improved harvest in 2017 when rainfall increases.Pioneer Food said adjusted operating profit increased by 6% to R2.3bn, while Rhodes Food s gross profit increased by 43.9% to R1.2bn. Astral reported a 50.1% decline in operating profit to R549m.Pioneer Foods embarked on a restructuring programme in 2014 to cut costs but the drought, maize price increases and the volatile rand hurt profits.However, it says the restructure is starting to take effect.External wheat flour sales came under pressure due to severe costs but bakeries continued to make progress along its strategic revitalisation journey, generating positive operating leverage . Astral said: The weakened state of consumer spending is unlikely to improve due to poor economic growth and higher unemployment which will continue to constrain an increase in the per capita consumption of poultry. High maize and feed prices will continue for the first half of 2017. 701198 With Reuters-TNA Reporter