A man died after being hit by a train at the Florida railway station in Roodepoort yesterday morning.A security guard told the police that the man, believed to be in his 30s, was mentally disturbed and they had previously warned him against jumping over railway tracks and dodging trains as it was dangerous and could get him killed.The security guard said by the time he had seen the man running towards the tracks and had shouted out a warning to him about two trains coming towards him, he had already jumped.When the man finally paid attention to the guard and as he turned to avoid an oncoming train, hewas hit by another train.Netcare 911 spokesperson Athlenda Mathe said when paramedics arrived on the scene, they found the man in a critical condition. He went into cardiac arrest and paramedics initiated CPR, Mathe said. Sadly, there was nothing more that paramedics could do. The man was declared dead at the scene. Meanwhile, Pretoria train commuters were late for work yesterday after the Metrorail services were disrupted due to technical challenges at the Hercules station.The train s traffic control panels were apparently defective, making it impossible for officials to remotely operate signals (robots). The problem has been occurring over a number of days although the impact on the service is slightly more today compared to the past few days with delays of up to 60 minutes, Metrorail s Lillian Mofokeng said.Train commuters from Mabopane, Dewildt and Pienaarspoort stations were affected by the delay. To minimise the impact on commuters, a shuttle train service was available between Pretoria North-Hercules-Pienaarspoort and Pretoria station. Train movement was authorised manually, thus causing major delays, Mofokeng said.Sylvia Sly Chauke was among those who was late for work because of the train disruptions. Tjo, I will end up jobless if this continues, she said.Rorisang Matea, another passenger, said the panel dysfunction was becoming an everyday type of situation . I have to be honest with you Metrorail you re the reason black people are unemployed. Nondumiso Zwanenondumisoz@thenewage.co.za