Traditional food will come under the spotlight at the upcoming Mapungubwe Culinary Indigenous Foods showcase with popular chef, Siba Mtongana and MEC for arts and culture Onicca Moloi, wearing their chef caps on the day, sharing their cooking skills with the people of Limpopo.The Mapungubwe Culinary Indigenous Foods Festival on December 12 forms part of the 12th annual Mapungubwe Arts and Heritage Festival. It takes place at various venues in Polokwane between December 1-17.Organisers of the lifestyle leg of the festival say food lovers can expect a variety of indigenous foods to be on display, with a focus on healthy and mouth-watering dishes such as Asian tripe and other wholesome dishes making food lovers salivate at the Jack Botes Gardens in Polokwane. There ll be a variety of dishes. Expect the Asian-inspired tripe. If you ve never tasted a dessert made from prickly pears before, then make a turn at the Jack Botes Gardens in Polokwane on December 12. Renowned chef Siba and I, in my capacity as a professional chef, will share our cookery skills during the festival, Moloi said.Moloi wears many hats. She is not just the head of portfolio for the department of sport, art and culture for Limpopo, but is also a qualified chef, a self-professed food lover and writer, who cooked for President Jacob Zuma before he was president.To encourage South Africans to adopt an appreciation of indigenous foods, the festival will showcase the best of traditional treats and their health benefits. Various chefs will dish up tips along with the food and advise on the best cooking methods that are not only delicious but also excellent for personal health.Through the indigenous food, marathon walk and pop up gym, the festival aims to encourage optimal existence in times when quality of life is constantly under pressure.Moloi also called an end to the myth that indigenous foods were less healthy than their westernised foods. We have to dispel the myth that indigenous food is backward. We should instil a sense of pride among all the people to understand that indigenous foods are vital. Indigenous foods are organic products and are generally uncontaminated.Take the spider plant, for instance, others call it African cabbage. It has all sorts of nutrients you can think of, vitamin C, proteins and amino acids. In fact, there s general consensus that this plant has high antioxidant levels which help to prevent heart illnesses and other diseases. So there s that medicinal value, but also indigenous foods contain natural oil, she said.Research by Xikombiso G Mbhenyane, whose outcome is published in a book titled Indilinga-African Journal of Indigenous Knowledge Systems shows that indigenous foods contain phytochemicals linked to protection against the development of diseases such as cancer, diabetes and hypertension.Such foods include Momordica balsamina (known as Mokhutsega in Northern Sotho, Nkaka in Tsonga and Tshibavhi in Tshivenda) were identified to treat and prevent hypertension and diabetes. So, the Night of the Chef is one not to be missed at the Mapungubwe Arts Festival, Moloi said, urging all to attend.SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@thenewage.co.za