The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) will inform the Constitutional Court that it has not met all the commitments it had made to the highest court in the country.Sassa disclosed this information at a meeting of the Social Development Portfolio Committee where it was accused of being in contempt of court, not planning ahead, criticised for lack of information, and of trying to tell social grant recipients how they should spend their money.The Constitutional Court ruled as invalid in 2014 a contract given to Cash Paymaster Services. Sassa gave an undertaking to the Court, which discharged its oversight function over the agency on November 25 last year.Social development director-general Zane Dangor yesterday informed the committee: The fact that we have not met those timelines means we have a go back to the Constitutional Court. We need to do that quite soon. Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini and her team felt the ire of members of Parliament.DA MP Evelyn Wilson was aghast that Sassa wanted to dictate how the receivers of social grants should spend their money.Dlamini responded that taxpayers money should not be spent on gambling or buying liquor. Saying we have no control over the grant money is not true. You have to ensure grant money is used correctly. This money has to contribute towards human development. On the issue of the Constitutional Court, she said Sassa was given timelines. We were given seven areas of importance. Because we have redefined the areas and the timelines that in itself says we must report back and say we are following the seven timelines. But in order for them to be effective we ve added this. This is not contempt of court. At the briefing it was also disclosed that Sassa was thinking of a special bankcard, which could be used to withdraw grants, making it compulsory that third parties could not withdraw money for loans or any other deductions from the accounts of holders of these cards.Dlamini agreed that Sassa could use the South African Post Office to pay grants. But the minister urged the Portfolio Committee to invite the Treasury, South African Reserve Bank, Post Office and Post Bank. If it was according to our wish we would work with them. There are challenges that we can t talk about here. Let them talk, she said.Sassa said it was also considering making grants payable, at what it calls Mom and Pop shops, in villages and in the rural areas as a way of ensuring social grants were spent in the communities where they were paid.Sassa also disclosed it was getting the biometrics of South Africans in order to verify information. Because it did not take the biometrics of children aged between three months and 14 years, Home Affairs did not possess all biometric information Sassa requires.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za