It is no longer a matter of if but when Shakes Mashaba will be vacating his Bafana Bafana post. It appears Mashaba, who is on suspension, is counting the days before he is walked to the guillotine by Safa s bosses, who now have the ammunition they need to get Mashaba to face several charges, including that of misconduct after he showed unbecoming behaviour towards Safa president Danny Jordaan and the association s CEO Dennis Mumble at the weekend. This is in addition to the charge of making unsavoury public remarks.A source close to the matter said the last straw for Safa was when Mashaba went off the rails, following Bafana s 2-1 victory over Senegal in a World Cup qualifier in Polokwane on Saturday. Mashaba spared none of his assumed critics, directing his profanity-laced tirade to the media and his bosses inside the dressing room, the source said. You don t support me but you are sabotaging me just like the journalists, Mashaba allegedly said in addition to other unprintable remarks. I m being criticised. I was called a dead man before this match. Mashaba has been under tremendous pressure in recent months, particularly after he failed to qualify for the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations. The World Cup qualifier victory clearly brought him a huge sigh of relief. What does this win (against Senegal) mean to me? It s a second lease of life. I was dead already, he said during the post-match press conference. But it s the events leading up to the press briefing that have earned him the ire of his bosses.There has been much speculation around Mashaba, with many questions over his suitability for the job well into the 2018 World Cup qualifiers. For some time, Safa s leadership has found itself caught on the horns of a dilemma regarding the coach s future and the latest episode may have made their next decision an easy one to make.Meanwhile, Owen da Gama will guide South Africa when they take on Mozambique in a friendly at Zimpeto Stadium in Maputo tonight. We need competition in all positions in the team, hence we will use Tuesday s friendly to look at other options, Da Gama said. Mozambique is a good side. They are young and improving as we saw in the friendly match against Kenya.-Kgomotso Sethusha