A memorial service for the personal assistant of Dr JS Moroka local municipality s mayor will be held today.Nicholas Peu was slain by an unknown killer or killers at his residence last week. The police are investigating leads that will hopefully lead to the arrest of his killers.The memorial service will be held at the Pankop Community Hall, near Mmametlhake. He will be buried on Saturday.Peu, 41, was personal assistant to the mayor, Gijiman Skhosana.His body was found in a pool of blood with gunshot wounds at his rented home in Moripe Gardens near Vaalbank outside Siyabuswa last week. Police spokesperson Brig Leonard Hlathi said the discovery was made by the neighbours who summoned the police when they noticed that his garage door had been opened and that his car was missing.On entering the premises, they found him lying the on floor already dead. The grey Volkswagen Polo belonging to the deceased was later discovered with its keys inside near Kammeelrivier. Information at the police s disposal revealed that the neighbours noticed utensils scattered outside the house, the garage door widely open with the deceased s car missing. Neighbours summoned the police and paramedics certified that the man had died at the crime scene, Hlathi said.He said the reason for the murder was unknown but a murder case had been opened for further investigation. An uncle of the deceased, Ephraim Peu, said they were saddened by his death and hoped the police would bring the killers to book.The circumstances surrounding his killing are still unclear. Two of his mobile phones are also missing.Council spokesperson Mmasabatha Ramatseke said the mayor and his staff were deeply shocked: As the municipality we are deeply shocked by the murder of our colleague. He was a remarkable personal assistant and his abilities will remain a legacy to us. May his soul rest in peace. Anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the Peu s killers should contact WO Josias Ntlatleng on 071 312 5641 or the police Crime Stop line on 0860010111.France Nyakafrancen@thenewage.co.za