Ashur Petersen has begun his career positively 10 years after losing his legendary father, the composer Taliep Petersen.The Capetonian is still sussing out the music business; he has now immersed himself in the production side of it and says it s going well. I m at a place where I m still trying to figure myself out in the industry and where I d like to be, Ashur said. I m also learning to produce and engineer my own tracks. Basically, I m experimenting with all spheres in the industry to see where I fit in and where I m most comfortable. Petersen s immediate plans include building his own studio and also finding his feet in the world of theatre production. I am working on an EP but I ve been so busy that it s been on the back burner for quite some time, he said. I hope that now I will get the chance to carry on with it. Petersen s mother, Najwa Petersen, killed his father 10 years ago. Ashur testified against at the trial.Taliep Petersen was best known for his dynamic compositions. He wrote the music for the Kat And The Kings musical, which was directed by David Kramer and eventually won the Olivier award for best new musical in 1999.Ashur s father was also responsible for popularising Cape culture most notably with District Six: The Musical. A number of the productions he worked on toured internationally to critical acclaim.Ashur said his father s death had a huge impact on his career as a musician and believes that the two of them would have made a great team. I know I wouldn t be where I am if he had not passed on, but I also believe that he and I would have been a force to be reckoned with had he still been alive, taking on the world as father and son. Last month, the young musician won over many hearts at the Taliep Petersen 10th anniversary tribute concert, showcasing his talents to thousands of fans. GrandWest Arena was completely sold out, Ashur said. Great musicians and artists were willing to be part of this auspicious event. It s only then that you realise how big Taliep was but to me he is still just my daddy . Petersen is scheduled to perform at the Shack Festival alongside Mi Casa in Cape Town on December 11.He also had some wise words for those who had lost a parent. People will always tell you it will get better but they don t know unless they are in your shoes, he said. So I will tell you the truth time doesn t heal. The only thing time does is makes things easier to deal with as we grow up and mature, it becomes easier. However, if you see fit to deal with the situation you re in, do it. Mine is music and art and thankfully it has helped me overcome everything.Petersen has credited his girlfriend for being so supportive of his musical ventures. I am not married and have no kids but I am in a relationship. She is supportive and I m grateful that I have someone like her in my life. Najwa Petersen was sentenced to 28 years in prison in 2008 for premeditated murder, along with two hitmen. Taliep s brother, Igsaan, said in 2013 that their mother had been after the composer s multi-million rand life policy.Keitumetsi Motlhalesnn6@thenewage.co.za