THE inaugural Schools Drama Festival was recently held at the Market Theatre in Newtown, Johannesburg.Basic Education Deputy Minister Mohamed Enver Surty vowed to support and ensure that good progress at schools was made and to support programmes that aspire to tell stories though the performing arts.A series of messages that were conveyed through stage productions worked to highlight the importance of young people s interpretation of the June 16, 1976 Soweto uprising.A call to make history compulsory was made. The performing schools also called on the government to make quality education and learning facilities available to all, especially pupils in rural areas.The deputy minister acknowledged the different messages conveyed and has committed to fulfilling their requests through initiatives. What we have just witnessed is a reflection of dreams and aspirations for the future that lies ahead through acting talent. I have a dream.I want our children to be proud of their history, identity, and languages. I want the spirit of June 76 to live with us forever, Surty said.Surty addressed the need to provide quality education for all. The time for a better future has arrived. We cannot turn our backs on the rural child.My response is that we have heard the message. We have convened a special roundtable discussion where we have established, within the department, a dedicated branch to ensure we pay particular attention to education in rural areas. For example, in the Eastern Cape you will find that week after week, a state of the art school is being built. In the past two years we have built about 107 schools. Surty said his plans was to ensure that history was taught in all schools. The messages that were sent through performing arts today are valid and concrete.History as a subject is vital and we will make sure that it is taught at every school by every learner from the grade 7. Deputy Minister in The Presidency Buti Manamela, who is also partner in the initiative said. We should not forget about the past. What happened on June 16, 1976, is part of our history.The schools drama competition is an educational exercise of our history. Award-winning artist and cofounder of the festival Meshack Mavuso said this was a mixture of arts and education and brings about change to South African youth and their knowledge of their history. With education being a hot topic in our country right now, and youth rising up to defend the cause, the time has never been better to interrogate what it means to be a young person in South Africa today. The premise of the festival is simple. Schools are invited to put together a production that examines the seminal 1976 protest, its significance then and how it relates to the shift we are seeing in our education landscape right now. The idea is to urge the young to look to the past in order to re-imagine their present and future. Mavuso said.Various schools from five Gauteng regions performed original works, Celebrating Youth Resilience: 40 Years of June 16 and Youth Taking South Africa Forward, creating authentic productions while regional coordinator liaised with the department of education.Other stakeholders included the social development department, NYDA, community and art centres and education agencies.news@thenewage.co.zaNONTOKOZO GXUMISA