&nbsp;&nbsp;Having suffered two back-to-back defeats to Free State Stars and Mamelodi Sundowns, Kaizer Chiefs midfielder George Maluleka feels that the season is far from over for Amakhosi.It has been a difficult season for Amakhosi. They have already lost two cup competitions. At the weekend they lost 2-1 to in form Sundowns at the Loftus Versfeld Stadium.Tonight, they face another tricky clash against SuperSport United, unbeaten in their last 10 matches. Can they bounce back at the FNB Stadium in a league clash scheduled for 7.30pm? Maluleka is adamant that they can turn the corner and that their clash against Matsatsantsa will get them off to winning ways. I think it s always disappointing to drop points or lose such games, but we have to look forward to improving our performance, Maluleka said. We have a very important game against SuperSport United, so we need to make sure that we rectify all the mistakes we made in the previous games. We have to push for a good result. Chiefs have been experiencing a slump of form after a promising start to the league which saw them chalk up impressive wins and keeping a clean sheet in six successive matches. But things have turned sour and have conceded four goals in those defeats, scoring three of their own.The 27-year-old Maluleka attributes the bad patch to their poor scoring form which saw them play three successive draws against Maritzburg United, Orlando Pirates and Baroka FC. We need to get the ball in the back of the net. I think this is what we must strive to achieve; we need a change of approach to doing things, Maluleka said. The games we drew we could have won comfortably and easily. I said last week that luck wasn t on our side in those games. But we re still looking to turn the corner and we re looking forward to the coming games because we think there is still a lot of good that we can do. We re not yet a spent force. There is a lot of work still to be done and we think we can rise to the occasion. Maluleka is also excited to be coming up against former team mate Reneilwe Letsholonyane, who is enjoying his game again.Letsholonyane and Maluleka played together at Amakhosi before he joined SuperSport and this will be the first time the two face each other from opposing sides. He is a quality player. I will never take anything away from him. At the moment he is in form and I can t say how I am going to tackle him or try to stop him, Maluleka said. Yeye is not playing alone, he got his own soldiers rallying behind him. NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za