Pilgrims Rest in Mpumalanga appears to have turned into an abandoned ghost town, although it boasts significant historical sites and landmarks and is one of the country s most authentic heritage areas.Lately, Pilgrims Rest has fallen on difficult times with very few tourists making their way to a town that used to be very popular among visitors to the province.In 2013, the public protector s (PP s) office released a report investigating allegations of maladministration by the department of public works, roads and transport in Mpumalanga in the awarding of contracts for shop leases in Pilgrims Rest.The town is owned and run by public works and business owners lease the properties.The PP s findings were that the department s conduct was improper and there was maladministration. The PP s remedial action was that the department s head must cancel the awarding of new shop leases in Pilgrims Rest. The PP said the department s head should ensure that a new procurement process complies with relevant laws and, among other issues, ensures owners of current businesses in the new bidding process are given adequate notice for vacating the premises, which should not be less than three months.The executive director of the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism, Lisa Sheard, said there had not been any significant changes in the area, save for a slow, downward trend of lower visitor numbers. It is not just an issue of maladministration, it is an issue of general incompetence by the department. Basically, only half of the town is operating due to their inability to fill the premises and the generally rundown state of the town. She believes that removing management control of the town from the department and letting the private sector intervene would regenerate the town and its tourism offerings. The co-owner of Wild Forest Inn at Pilgrims Rest confirmed that tourism in the area was on a downward trend despite the town s immense potential. The town is becoming dilapidated and crime also scares people away. Much can be done in respect of a general effort to attract tourists and promote the town by showing them what it can offer, she said. But firstly, addressing the deterioration is a priority. The overseas visitors to the area hail mostly from Europe. The Royal Hotel s manager, Lella Snyph, says the establishment caters to between 1 300 and 1 500 guests monthly.However there had been a decline in the last 10 to 15 years, she said. I think the perception out there is that Pilgrims Rest is completely dead or closed down and if you come here there is nothing to do which is not really true. About 80% of our business is foreign tourism, she said, adding that the defunct businesses in the area also add to the negative picture about the state of the town. The media are a little bit to blame for the perception out there, that Pilgrims Rest is a ghost town and that there is nothing going on here because when people hear that, they kind of jump on the bad publicity bandwagon and that makes it even worse, she said.Snyph is convinced that if the narrative around the national heritage town becomes positive, more tourists will want to visit the historic setting. The town came alive in the 1800s when alluvial gold was discovered, prompting a second gold rush.In 1986 Pilgrims Rest was declared a national monument a reminder of the late 1800s and early 1900s gold rush.provinces@thenewage.co.za