Parents are urged to encourage their children to take swimming lessons to prepare them for the festive season on the beach and at pools.The call was made by lifeguards who work at various swimming pools and beaches during the season in the George, Mossel Bay and Oudtshoorn areas.In Bhongolethu and Conville townships young children between the ages of six and 12 were yesterday given free swimming lessons as parents looked on.The National Safe Kids Campaign (NSKC) said drowning was the second leading cause of unintentional injury-related deaths of children between the ages of one and 14 years.The NSKC also believed it was crucial that all children should be taught how to swim at a young age because there was always water around them, even if it was just in a small tub. Conville swimming pool lifeguard head Christie van Wyk said the festive season was the most hectic month of the year as many people flock to the beaches and pools because of the heat in the southern Cape region. We have a high volume of children coming to the swimming pools and beaches, Van Wyk said. We have to be at our posts all the time guarding the kids from drowning. We sometimes provide free swimming lessons as some children come here for the first time and they don t know how to swim. We encourage parents to teach their children how to swim. This is very important as swimming is fun for the children. Teach your kids to swim and they ll have a skill that will benefit them in many ways for the rest of their lives, Van Wyk said.Conville resident Oscar Links said parents should always support their children in positive initiatives. This is an important call to all parents, especially in our previously disadvantaged communities. The majority of our children don t know how to swim and if we support them in taking up swimming classes, we will be reducing the number of drownings. Remember swimming is also an important sport especially for youngsters. If our children start swimming now, we might in future have an international champion coming from this area, Links said.&#8211;MPUMI KIVA