THE water restrictions imposed on a number of areas including several municipalities in Gauteng such as Tshwane and Ekurhuleni are putting the squeeze on small businesses that have already been hit by high costs amid a slowing economy.As water levels continue to decline, consumers and businesses have been forced to contend with water restrictions implemented by the Department of Water and Sanitation.Aneez Amod of Jimmy s Group (Jimmy s Killer Fish n Chips) yesterday said that financial implications for small businesses could be disastrous if the water restrictions continue. All of a sudden water is more important than electricity and we have now come up with ways of saving water and still be in business, Amod said.The water restrictions due to the ongoing drought will be reviewed in May to determine if they should be relaxed or intensified. A number of municipalities have reduced water consumption by 15%.Judy Corney, managing director at Mike s Kitchen, said the restrictions had forced them to come up with new methods of sourcing water. We are in the process of installing water tanks to have a supply of fresh water. The knock-on effect on businesses is worse, especially unplanned water interruptions. Water is integral in the running of business. She said they were also concerned over issues of hygiene as water is required for cooking, cleaning and preparing food. She said planning around load shedding was easier than working around water cuts.Franchise Association of South Africa executive director Vera Valasis said: Where most small businesses and many franchise groups have built in the cost of generators some years ago when load shedding was at its worst, water cuts present their own unique challenges, especially for those in the food industry. Valasis said small businesses should be given sufficient notice of impending water cuts so that they could come up with contingency plans. Many of these cuts take place without any notice, which goes against the government regulations which prescribe a four-day notice period before water shedding is implemented by municipalities. This has been South Africa s worst drought since 1997. Scientists say that the country needs good and stable rains for at least two years to break the drought.&#8211; ZODIDI MHLANA