Banyana Banyana interim coach Desiree Ellis has asked for more composure from her players ahead of their titanic clash against Nigeria in the semifinals of the Africa Women s Cup of Nations in Cameroon tomorrow.South Africa walloped Egypt 5-0 on Friday to book their semifinal spot.Goals from Andisiwe Mgcoyi, Nothando Vilakazi, Refiloe Jane, Linda Motlhalo and Jermaine Seoposenwe gave the South Africans the important three points that saw them survive alongside the hosts in Group A.Banyana endured a stuttering start in the tournament, opening their campaign with a goalless draw against Zimbabwe and lost 1-0 to hosts Cameroon in their second match.Ellis saw the need to work with her attackers as they were misfiring in front of goal and she didn t have to wait that long to see the results. We have been working a lot on composure in front of goals and working a lot on communication because that s what we lacked when we go in on goal. We felt that players were rushing, Ellis said. We always knew that if the players are composed in front of goal there would be a difference. Ellis understands that Nigeria will not be a walk in the park and her players will need to work hard and be clinical if they are to make it to the final of the tournament. Hopefully going forward we will be more composed because against Nigeria we might get just one chance and we will have to put that chance to good use. The coach was impressed by the performance and fighting spirit the players showed on the day. The players were able to handle the pressure well as they knew that a defeat or a draw will see them coming home early. We have been in this situation before where we lost the first game and drew the second match, Ellis said. Being in that situation rings in your mind that you have been there before and you know how to get out of it. It was just about being composed and being patient but not becoming too desperate, which I think at times we did. If Banyana manages to win the cup it will boost Ellis chances of securing the position of national coach on a permanent basis.The match will kick off at 7pm at Stade Limbe.SITHEMBISO DINDIsithembisod@thenewage.co.za