Phillip Snyman is the new Springbok Sevens captain after Kyle Brown stepped down,and will instead settle into a more supportive role to the younger leaders in the squad. Neil Powell Springbok Sevens coach praised Brown for the role he played over the last five seasons and emphasised that the Blitzbok veteran still has an important role to play in the team. We already had a strong leadership group in the squad and Philip is a natural leader of men, so it was an easy choice. He will do well, I have no doubt, Powell said. The player has played in 56 HSBC World Rugby Sevens series tournaments to date, and he felt that the time had come where it feels right for him to step aside as captain of the team. Brown said that it was a privilege serving as Captain, and notes that he had discussed the move with the coach shortly after the teams return from the Olympics and the decision was made last week I cannot begin to express my gratitude for the opportunity to lead such an amazing group of people. Having said that, I must thank the leadership group that surrounded me, making the position most enjoyable. Thank you to everyone that placed their trust in me to fulfil the captaincy,&#8221; said the bronze winning Olympian This season he said he look forward to moving into a supportive role with the aim of helping the young leaders find their rhythm and, most importantly, concentrating on adding as much value to the team on and off the field as he can. Neil Powell said that Brown always put the team before himself and this is another example of that. We are starting to bring new faces into the squad, so it will be great to still have a leader like Kyle around to show them what the team culture is, what we stand for as a group and a team. Powell said that Brown still had a lot to offer as a player and said that he has done a sterling job as captain of the team. Kyle still has a lot to offer as a player and I am convinced we will still see some inspiring performances from him this season. He was an amazing captain and we salute his contribution,&#8221; said the Sevens coach. TNA Reporter&nbsp;