A racist, sexist thug and billionaire will be the next leader of the world s foremost imperialist power.Donald Trump successfully posed as the anti-establishment candidate. But he is part and parcel of the US ruling class, and has been putting together a team to ramp up attacks on the working class.Trump has threatened policies that undermine the rights of Muslims, migrants, LGBT+ people and women.Since the election he has vowed to launch a new crackdown on illegal migrants as soon as he takes office on 20 January 2017.Trump s transition team, which will help make cabinet appointments and fill more than 1000 senior government posts, is stuffed with racists and family members.Former Goldman Sachs investment banker and media tycoon Stephen Bannon is the chief strategist and senior counsellor.Bannon also runs the white nationalist Breitbart News website a swamp of rabid antisemites and Islamophobes.The chief of staff is Reince Priebus who tried to rally the Republican Party machine behind Trump. Priebus led the smashing of public sector trade unions collective bargaining rights in Wisconsin in 2013.It is no wonder that far right politicians across Europe cheered Trump s win. Marine Le Pen, leader of the fascist Front National in France, said it was an additional stone in the building of a new world order .Beppe Grillo of the populist Five Star Movement in Italy hailed a triumph of the failures and misfits . Those who dare, the stubborn, the barbarians will carry the world forward, and we are the barbarians, Grillo thundered.Jamie Dimon, CEO of top investment bank JP Morgan, has been approached to be treasury secretary.Throughout the campaign, Trump attacked banker-bashing and said he would repeal the tame Dodd Frank Act for Wall Street Reform that was passed after the financial crash.Climate change denier Sarah Palin is being brought in from the cold to serve as interior secretary, putting her in charge of the environment.But these two appointments also point to the problems facing a Trump presidency. He is seeking to balance between the right wing populism that got him elected and the bosses who largely backed his rival Hillary Clinton.Establishment politicians who previously railed against Trump are now trying to rally around him to heal the wounds of a divided nation .Just as lesser evil Clinton failed to keep Trump out of the White House, those politics aren t enough to oppose him now.That will take struggles against neoliberalism and racism that can resist his attacks. They can also help forge a socialist alternative and channel anger away from Trump s reactionary politics of despair.The Tories are rowing about how to respond to Donald Trump s election as US president.Loathsome Ukip leader Nigel Farage met Trump last weekend the first foreign leader of a political party to do so and the first British politician.The meeting almost didn t happen due to mass anti-Trump protests causing a lockdown of Trump Tower.It followed Trump s snub to Tory leader Theresa May, when he contacted nine other politicians before speaking to her.Some Tories want Theresa May to use Farage s links with Trump to help safeguard Britain s relationship with the US. One senior Whitehall source told the Daily Mail newspaper: It would be churlish to rubbish him completely. Farage wrote in the Daily Telegraph newspaper: If the president-elect trusts me then I would hope that some in the British government could do the same thing. He said many in the government had been unrelentingly negative about Trump and suggested he would help if needed.Others in the Tory party want nothing to do with Farage. Crispin Blunt MP, chair of the foreign affairs select committee, said: There s no need for Nigel. A Downing Street source said: We are not using Nigel Farage as a go-between. We have an active and very good relationship with the Republicans. Meanwhile Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said Trump s victory was an unmistakeable rejection of a political establishment and an economic system that simply isn t working for most people .He said, Some of Trump s answers to the big questions facing America, and the divisive rhetoric around them, are clearly wrong. socialistworker.comTom Tengely-Evans