In the end, the seven wicket loss to bitter rivals Australia at the Adelaide Oval in the third and final Test yesterday did not bother South Africa too much. There is no doubt that a historic Test whitewash and maiden pink ball success over their hosts could have felt better for captain Faf du Plessis and his men but they return home this week with positives far outweighing the negatives.When they debrief this tour which ended 2-1 in their favour following successive wins in Perth and Hobart, coach Russell Domingo, Du Plessis and the selectors will be satisfied that they ticked most of the boxes ahead of the incoming Sri Lanka tour next month. The two glaring success Down Under were the performances of debutants Keshav Maharaj, who ended the series with four wickets in his four innings, and Tabraiz Shamsi who claimed two scalps in as many innings.Then, Kagiso Rabada continued to boost his reputation as one of the best young fast bowlers in the world with a handsome return of 15 wickets in six innings to end the series as the second best bowler after Josh Hazlewood who had two more. In the absence of Dale Steyn, who returned home due to injury, Kyle Abbott stepped up to make a strong case for himself with 13 wickets after four innings while Vernon Philander, who was named the man-of-the series, impressed with 12 wickets after his six innings. Speaking after match yesterday, Du Plessis said he would fondly remember the series despite the setback in Adelaide. We came here to win the series and to win in Australia three times in a row is an amazing feat. There were a lot of questions about our team without AB de Villiers and Dale Steyn. It was a great chance for guys to make a name for themselves and the guys did it. The most pleasing thing is that everyone stepped up. From a batting and bowling point of view everyone put their hand up, he said.With the bat Quinton de Kock ended as the second best batsman with 281 runs after Usman Khawaja while Du Plessis, JP Duminy, Stephen Cook and Temba Bavuma also impressed. Dean Elgar and Philander also made telling contributions of 161 and 136 respectively while one of the negatives of the tour was the poor performance of Hashim Amla who could only manage 98 runs in five innings.mahlatsem@thenewage.co.za-Mahlatse Mphahela