With Ernst Middendorp and Maritzburg United it always returns to the same farce. For the third time in as many seasons, Middendorp has ditched Maritzburg, resigning from a position he held for 11 months. According to the statement the club issued yesterday, the two parted ways amicably but Middendorp hinted at the internal strife he faced over his outspoken nature.During his tenure, the tetchy Middendorp invariably courted controversy, finding himself at odds with PSL referees and even acting PSL CEO Mato Madlala. On several occasions he risked sanction from the league, accusing the PSL of a lack of professionalism and Madlala of having undue influence over referees. The German seemingly proved a handful for his bosses at Maritzburg, who found themselves caught between a rock and a hard place trying to rein him in and keep the club clear of trouble. We have a multimillion rand business (PSL) in South Africa. I know I m a foreigner, but football is a global sport. I don t think you can let it be run by human beings, who of course have work commitments, family commitments and friendship commitments, Middendorp said in one of his tirades.He later apologised for his outburst.But yesterday, the club announced the resignation of Middendorp, who saved the team from certain relegation last season. On-field circumstances put the team at a disadvantage and as such we lost critical points that would see us on a much better position on the log by now, Middendorp said. It was very difficult to continue under such circumstances. I took days off to reflect on the situation and the club brand being under threat as a result. I then approached the chairperson and persuaded him to release me from the contract for the sake of avoiding damage to the club and to protect the brand. The chairperson tried hard to persuade me to stay and complete what I started, but I felt it was in the interest of the club that I step down. Maritzburg chairperson Farouk Kadodia expressed disappointment at Middendorp s departure. It was a very painful decision to allow Ernst to go, Kadodia said. I tried to persuade him to stay, but he was adamant that to leave was the best thing to do for the sake of the club. Fadlu Davids will be in charge until further notice. kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha