Some artists in the province have complained that the recent imbizos held in the province did not address pressing issues faced by the cultural artists.However, the department of arts and culture which hosted the Imbizos has hailed the event as a success and said it was happy with the turnout and the level of participation by local artists.The department said: We are happy with the general input by the communities and other stakeholders regarding the problems. But the artists said they had on countless occasions raised their issues with the government but until now have not received any joy from the officials.Recently Arts and Culture Deputy Minister Rejoice Mabudafhasi was in Upington to address the problems.She said: We will respond to those issues and to give feedback on areas where there have been progress. She did however admit that the artists were not receiving the support they needed. Meanwhile, Shane Mayongo who focuses his crafts on ceramic said she did not feel that the government supported her.Mayongo said she felt that the challenges of the crafters were not being attended to and that they have gone on deaf ears . I personally have not received any assistance from the government. Last year during the Mangaung Cultural Festival (Macufe) I did not get funding for my equipment. I became so desperate, I used money for food to organise equipment, she said.Mayongo said the meetings they have had with the provincial government yielded no results. Nothing materialised out of those meetings . They bring us to exhibitions but never ask us what we need, she saidAnother crafter Willy Machogo who focuses his crafts on wood said he felt that the government had not interacted with them in a way that could benefit the arts industry in the province and was disappointed with the way we are treated . We listed our complaints but they have not entertained us one bit. It just felt like a talk shop, Machogo said. What some of us wanted is to know how we can export our products or get more funding for our business and how to place our products on the market, he said.Machogo said he hoped there would be a plan of action from the national government to resolve the difficulties encountered by the artists in the province.Nomusa Mvubunomusam@thenewage.co.za