A STRONG leadership contingent has visited the Western Cape to resolve disputes and dissatisfaction over nominations for the August local government elections. The delegation also spent time on political education, as well as strategy and tactics. Dispatched by the NEC, the team included deputy secretarygeneral Jessie Duarte, Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi and ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu.Reflecting on the visit, ANC provincial head of communications Jabu Mfusi said the delegation visited branches to discuss grievances of the manner in which candidates were selected. Branches included those in wards 34, 40, 93 and 101. They want to hear about the grievances. Of political education, he said, We ve emphasised there s a lack of political education throughout our structures. Mfusi said that the five-yea sentence imposed on Marius Fransman by the National Disciplinary Committee has put the ANC in a leadership quandary. The penalty was announced last week. When Fransman voluntarily stepped aside as chairperson earlier this year following allegations of sexual assault, Khaya Magaxa became acting chairperson while the NEC deployed three of its members to the province.If Fransman appeals his sentence it will mean that Magaxa will probably continue to act as chairperson. With Fransman s appeal looming, an election conference to elect another chairperson cannot be held until the matter has been resolved. Fransman is expected to announce his future plans later this week. Meanwhile, Donovan Cloete, who was with Fransman when he allegedly made sexual advances towards Louisa Wynand, has accused the young Stellenbosch woman of coming on to him during the road trip to the ANC s birthday celebrations.He said in news reports he was surprised that the National Disciplinary Committee did not call on him to give evidence during its two-day hearing that Fransman did not attend because his testimony was no longer needed. In the light of his evidence, Cloete wants the NDC to reconsider its findings. Speaking on the sidelines of an ANC Cadres Forum in Mahikeng on Sunday, secretary-general Gwede Manatshe said that Fransman had to follow the party s appeal structure and that his case would be accorded a fair hearing. Fransman has gone through disciplinary hearing processes and he has the right to appeal. However he does not do that, but appeals through ANN7, Sunday Times and SABC. That is not the relevant process to launch an appeal, he said. Regarding reports of tensions between Fransman and himself, Mantashe said: I do not know that there are disagreements between me and Comrade Marius Fransman. dennisc@thenewage.co.za