Premier David Makhura welcomed the slight increase in jobs created which, together with the Western Cape and Eastern Cape, was one of the only three provinces where jobs were created rather than shed over the last quarter (July-September).The Quarterly Labour Force results released by Statistics South Africa (StatsSA) on Tuesday indicated that the provincial economy had created the most number of jobs (126000) during this period.Makhura said: We welcome this growth, it augurs well with our efforts to get our economy to recover and grow in a way that is inclusive and creates jobs. Ekurhuleni municipality and the city of Tshwane recorded the largest job gains at 61000 and 39000 respectively. This represents 5.3% growth in Ekurhuleni and 3.2% in Tshwane. Johannesburg recorded 0.7% growth with district and local municipalities recording 1.9% growth combined, Makhura said.Gauteng has 5.068 million people employed. The survey said the sectors that created the most jobs were the finance sector at 58000, followed by the retail and wholesale sector at 45000 and the transport sector at 27000. The construction sector also recorded 22000 new jobs. In the past two years, the provincial government engaged in a process to understand the economic potential of each region based on its unique features. This resulted in the development of the economic plan with sector specific strategies for growth, Makhura said.In June, an economic indaba was held with business, labour and civil society to discuss growth and development strategies. The indaba reiterated the importance of working together to drive re-industrialisation and growth.Makhura said government was committed to using the public procurement policy to decisively promote employment, empowerment and local manufacturing.To address the scourge of youth unemployment, which is also reflected in the survey, Makhura called on business to introduce initiatives that would give young people opportunities to enter the labour market.A partnership between the provincial government and businesses exists through a programme called Tshepo 500000. The programme seeks to expose young people to training opportunities, entrepreneurship and employment. It was agreed that this programme needed to be upscaled. We will continue with our programme of reaching out to business to build sustainable partnerships towards job creation and economic growth, Makhura said.This comes as StatsSA said South Africa s unemployment rate for the third quarter of the year had climbed to 27.1%.The rate is the highest seen since 2003 when unemployment hit the same level.NONDUMISO ZWANEnondumisoz@thenewage.co.za