Controversy surrounds the appointment of the city of Johannesburg s new head of internal investigations unit, Shadrack Sibiya.The opposition ANC has questioned the legality of the former Hawks boss s appointment and the unit. Sibiya was recently fired from the Hawks over the illegal rendition of a Zimbabwean.City of Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba yesterday presented Sibiya and confirmed he was hired on Tuesday to head a self-running unit to fight corruption in the city.However, the ANC greater Johannesburg regional spokesperson Jolidee Matongo accused Mashaba of grandstanding . He does not have a programme on how he will deliver services to the residents of Johannesburg, all he is saying is what the ANC did not do. We want to know the process used to appoint Sibiya to head this non-existent unit. The post was never advertised. All we hear from Mashaba is that Sibiya was head. When did he attend the interview? The matter was not discussed in council, so forming a unit on his own is unconstitutional, Matongo said.He said they had nothing against Sibiya as the ANC but were against the failure to follow due processes.Mashaba fired back, saying the old administration failed to fill two positions at the risk and audit department of the city, meaning there was a budget for Sibiya. I have total confidence in Sibiya. He possesses the integrity, experience and courage to perform this role in a fashion that will restore hope among our residents again. In fact, I am issuing my first instruction to him now in front of you all. You must investigate anyone in this city for which there is just cause. I give you an open invitation to investigate me, or any member of this government at any time you may deem necessary. You will have my full support in the work you are going to do, but I require results. When I speak of results, I mean there will be no golden handshakes, no slaps on the wrist. I want to see corrupt people going to jail and monies being recovered, Mashaba said.Mashaba told Sibiya to urgently design, set up and capacitate the corruption-busting unit. I want this unit to operate in a manner similar to how a Chapter 9 Institution operates to guarantee autonomy. My second request is to ask him to look into the investigations that have been conducted in the city and its entities. This must ensure that findings were correct and carried out to the letter, Mashaba said.During the briefing, files were placed next to Mashaba, he said he brought them to show that he was inundated with corruption allegations, forensic reports and questionable tenders which he alleged had been purposely hidden from the public eye. I have a number of cases that are at advanced stages of forensic investigation. We will be releasing the outcome of these investigations soon, because our approach is that we will share with you the outcomes of all investigations where wrongdoing is found, Mashaba said.Ntombi Nkosintombin@thenewage.co.za