The festive season is just around the corner and the future already looks bleak for retailers, especially in the clothing sector, as cash-strapped consumers have heavily cut spending on clothing purchases on the back of the weak economy and skyrocketing food prices.Leading clothing retailer Mr Price s half-year results published yesterday saw profit down 13.7%.Recently, Woolworths said its clothing sales also fell as South Africans are increasingly spending less on clothes, a trend that is now hurting companies in the sector. Local clothing retailers must try to be innovative and introduce measures that can bring them back to winning ways by putting the state of SA households first when stockpiling for the oncoming festive season. It is out there for everyone to see that consumers are battling. Retailers must focus on what consumers like the most and what they can afford rather than stockpiling stuff that is more expensive. Such items are likely to remain on the shelves for some time because no one can afford to buy them, Rose Modise, a consumer expert said.She said consumer spending is still in the doldrums and retailers must stock what is more affordable this Christmas. Another factor that is impacting on local retailers is the current level of unemployment and continuing restructuring, which lead to retrenchments in other sectors of the economy. As a result this put more pressure in spending on other items, she said.Some analysts said despite the challenging economic environment, the National Credit Regulator s affordability assessment regulations, have also played a part, as lending criteria has been resolutely tightened, making it difficult for consumers to buy on credit. The poor economic environment, revised credit-granting regulations, the late arrival of winter weather and higher prices caused by the weak rand were all contributing factors, Mr Price said.The group said it expects trading conditions to remain difficult in the second half with no relief in sight for an embattled consumer. Last week, TransUnion s consumer credit index (CCI) said the consumer credit conditions has been challenging in the third quarter of 2016, but not deteriorating rapidly. The index increased marginally in the third quarter from 48.6 to 49.0.The CCI is based on a 100-point scale, where 50.0 is the break-even level of improvement and deterioration of credit health. Regional president of TransUnion Africa, Geoff Miller, explained that a slightly rising CCI just below 50 indicates consumer credit conditions are challenging, but not deteriorating rapidly.He said one reason credit health may not be worsening rapidly, despite a weak economy and job market, is that borrowers and lenders have been more cautious in recent years. We know that lending standards in the past three years or so have tightened up aft-ome tough lessons were learned in the unsecured lending boom from 2009 to 2012. We may be seeing some of the rewards of this trend both to lenders and borrowers, Miller said.BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za