The Portfolio Committee on Environmental Affairs has called on South African Police Services (SAPS) to arrest Chinese Millionaire Guan Jiang Guang who is allegedly notorious for killing of rhinos.The Committee&#8217;s sentiments come after television network Al Jazeera&#8217;s documentary that was aired on Sunday which Guang confess his involvement in the illegal trade of rhino horn.In the documentary Guan Jiang Guang told Al Jazeera journalist that he is friends with the State of Security Minister David Mahlobo.However, Minister Mahlobo refuted this claims saying that the allegations were ludicrous and that he reserved his rights in respect to people who were making this false claims, and that he is no friend with the Chinese counterpart. This is not true. Minister Mahlobo is not a friend of Mr. Guang and has never visited him at his residence. The photo that appeared on Al Jazeera and in the Sunday papers is a photo taken when the Minister was being treated at a manicure table and Guang requested a photo to be taken. This is clear from the photo itself, the minister said in a statement.He said it was absurd that Al Jazeera would link him to the illegal poaching of rhino horns all because he visits a Spa in solely for the services. Mahlobo says he was recently been made aware of the Guang involvement in Rhino Pouching through the aired broadcast.The portfolio chairperson Philemon Mapulane said the allegations were serious considering the plight of South African rhino populations in the face of an ongoing criminal onslaught on this iconic, flagship species. Rhino poaching is the worst wildlife crime our country has ever experienced. It has reached epidemic proportions over the past couple of years, at a great cost to our nation in terms of the ecology and human and financial resources. It is a crime that all South Africans must unite in combating, Mapulane added.He continued by saying that South Africans must never forget about the lives of brave rangers and other South Africans whom were lost in the battle to protect the iconic species.Mapulane said the committee was concern about the Mahlobo&#8217;s association in the matter and should not be left unattended as it could undermine the integrity of government s efforts to dismantle international rhino poaching criminal syndicates. It is therefore in this context that we call for the thorough investigation of these allegations by the relevant authorities so we can get to the bottom of this. We welcome and appreciate that Minister Mahlobo himself has called for the investigation of this allegations against him, Environmental Affairs Committee chairperson said.-Sipho Jack