The Moyo family from Edenvale in Ekurhuleni have hailed their house helper as a hero after she put her life on the line to save their two children from this week s flash floods.The children, aged three and eight, were traumatised after being trapped inside their flooded house for almost three hours while their parents were at work. Luckily for them their helper Mary Nyathi not only placed them on a table to avoid the rising water but also had the presence of mind to switch off the electricity. Nyathi and the children climbed on top of the table in the lounge. The water was 1m high, but Nyathi made sure my children were safe. If it was not for her, I do not know what would have happened, Moyo said.Lungile Moyo was at work in Limpopo when he received a frantic call from Nyathi and could hear his kids screaming in the background that they were going to die. I called my home security provider ADT for help, to my surprise, they told me that my palisade fence had no entry point and their policy did not allow them to jump over. I am disappointed, this was a matter of life or death. Not only were the security company personnel unable to help his trapped family, they did not even bother to call emergency services to help his marooned family.Cathy Findley, PR on behalf of ADT, said: We are so sorry ADT could not be of more assistance. Our records show a call was logged to our monitoring centre at 6.10pm and our reaction officer did respond but the response was delayed due to severe road congestion. Our protocol is not to jump over high walls for the safety of our officers. We are investigating why a call was not logged to emergency services. Moyo expressed gratitude to his neighbours who noticed their two dogs swimming in the flood. There was a miscommunication, when my neighbours rescued the dogs, they saw Nyathi waving, but they thought she was greeting when she was really signalling for help.Ekurhuleni metro has dismissed allegations there were not enough emergency services personnel to assist flash flood victims. We have district managers who are communicating with the South African Weather Services and they are alert. There can never be enough people to deal with flash-floods, we are extremely ready, Ekurhuleni mayoral spokesperson Zweli Dlamini said.He said the government stakeholders had established a Joint Operation Centre (JOC) which brought together all relevant departments to deal with issues such as power cuts, roads and water cuts.The JOC has disaster management, the EMS, the metro police and the provincial government, he said.Anyone with an emergency should call 0177 or 0114580911.ntombin@thenewage.co.za