Provincial Premier Willies Mchunu has invited the global community, especially governments and stakeholders in the health industry within the Brics bloc, to work with the local government to create a healthy society capable of driving socioeconomic development.Mchunu was speaking during a panel discussion at the 9th Global Conference on Health Promotion, in Shanghai until Thursday. This is a gathering of policy makers, ministers, pharmaceutical companies, non-governmental organisations, international funders, researchers and academics organised by the National Health and Family Planning Commission of China and the World Health Organisation.Mchunu, who is accompanied by the MEC for health Dr Sbongiseni Dhlomo and the mayor of eThekwini, Zandile Gumede, said the province was working on a health literacy campaign with hopes to improve the quality of health for its citizens. We are on the lookout for partnerships and we are continually learning best practices in healthcare management. The conference has provided a platform for us to identify our strengths and weaknesses in our healthcare system. In this conference, in particular, we have acquired extensive knowledge in the area of health promotion, its main focus. I have often stated on various platforms that while it is true the prospects for health of the average citizen in this province (life expectancy) have improved, there nevertheless remains a major challenge of health illiteracy. Premier Mchunu said there were still numerous preventable diseases which continue to undermine the health and quality of life of many people in the province as a result of health illiteracy. Many people do not have the skills required to obtain, understand and act on health information and services, nor do they have the ability to make appropriate health decisions on their own. Those who endure the greatest struggles with low health literacy skills are most often older adults and people with lower levels of education. The implications for these more vulnerable groups is that limited health literacy often correlates with a lack of ability to effectively self-manage health, access health services, understand available and relevant information, and make informed health-related decisions, Mchunu said.Given that chronic ill-health is the leading cause of death in South Africa, the positive health and lifestyle implications for health literacy are potentially far-reaching. Flowing from this congress, we will undertake a health-literate campaign in order to create a healthy society. To be health literate is to be able to access and understand the information required to manage one s health on a day-to-day basis. Mental health and stigma associated with it will be prioritised to ensure that public healthcare services are friendly to those affected.Nokuthula Ntulinokuthulan@thenewage.co.za