Ward committee elections at 40 wards in the eThekwini municipality have been postponed due to violence.Voting was successful in 70 out of the 110 wards that were meant to have been going through the elective process on Sunday.Violent disruptions as well as logistical challenges and interference from people who were not happy with the voting process, however, forced the elections to be aborted in the remaining 40 wards. The elections were scheduled to start at 8am but there were problems with registration and verification at some voting stations due to the late delivery of infrastructure and voting papers.The delay in the process led to anger among some voters who suspected sabotage, resulting in chaos and commotion. Municipal spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said the elections in the outstanding wards which include the politically charged Inchanga and Lamontville areas, would then be held this Sunday, November 27. There will be strong police presence to ensure that the voting process goes ahead smoothly. Security will be beefed up with an increased deployment of law enforcement agencies at the remaining 40 voting sites to ensure that the election process is completed with no hurdles, she said.During the elections on Sunday, November 20, there were 757 South African Police Service members deployed at various voting stations in the south, north, central, inner and outer west regions. Furthermore, a total of 283 metro police were on the ground, according to the municipality. But this did not deter protesters in Lamontville who are still aggrieved about the selection of the councillor. We do not want a corrupt drunkard for a councillor, that is why we will not be voting. The voting process is already tainted by lies and corruption, a resident said.Mthethwa said it was crucial to have ward committees as they can hold councillors accountable. In their role as the committee they are able to identify and address the needs and challenges in the community working with the ward councillor.They also break down the boundaries between the municipality and the residents of eThekwini by circulating information about municipal programmes. Those elected will undergo a verification process to ensure that they meet the necessary requirements to be ward committee members. This includes verifying that the elected member is not a municipal employee and is not a community development worker or cadre appointed by any national or provincial government department, Mthethwa said of the validation process.Also, the elected member should not have been convicted after February 1997 of any offence for which they were sentenced to imprisonment without the option of a fine, for a period of over 12 months.provinces@thenewage.co.za