The Minister of Agriculture said some time ago that about 12 million South Africans were affected by food insecurity. This is a staggering figure. Is it correct? How prevalent is hunger in our communities and what do we do about it? Tatjana von Bormann explains.What is food insecurity? How does it affect the most vulnerable?Simply put, food insecurity in South Africa is characterised not by a shortage of supply, but rather the inability to access available food by the poor and marginalised in our society. People go hungry in South Africa not because there isn t enough food to go round, but because they cannot afford a diverse, fresh and nutritious diet.Estimating the number of hungry people in South Africa is no simple task. Numbers such as the 12 million constantly shift, as food insecurity is a dynamic and complex phenomenon. Hunger is a subjective experience and the level of discomfort associated with it varies between different people and sectors of society. As a qualitative measurement it is difficult to pin down, even at a specific moment in time.There is, however, evidence of a high prevalence of hunger in both urban and rural areas impacting millions of South Africans. The 2012 South African National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey estimated that 26% of households were experiencing hunger while a further 28.3% were at risk of hunger while the remaining 45.6% had food security. These figures are for households.In 2014, Stats SA reported that 1760946 households (11.4% of all households) contained an adult or a child that reported going hungry in the past 12 months . This does not, however, mean that everyone in the household went hungry. At the individual level, just more than 7 million individuals (13.1% of the total population) reported experiencing hunger in the last year.In vulnerable, low-income households it is estimated that almost two thirds of income is spent on food, leaving very little money for other critical needs such as housing, electricity, transport and education. And because of the steadily rising cost of healthy choices such as fish, lean meat, fruits and vegetables, these tend to be substituted with less nutritious, cheaper choices such as maize and bread.How does food insecurity affect communities?It s worth noting that food health does not present only as wasting and stunting, but also as weight issues from overeating foods with low nutritional value. In South Africa we are faced with the twin scourge of unacceptably high rates of malnutrition, particularly among young children, occurring alongside increasing levels of obesity and overweight in older children and adults.At a community level, the impact is most evident in the form of health issues. Almost one child in five in South Africa has some form of nutritional deficiency and in the adult population there is a dramatic upsurge in non-communicable diseases such as cardio-vascular disease and diabetes.As many know from personal experience, hunger makes you tired, impatient, even angry. Analysts have linked the social unrest in informal settlements, the mining sector and among farm workers during recent years to the rise in global food prices. South Africa s mining riots in August 2012 coincided with record prices for maize and other basic food items. The xenophobic riots of 2008, which coincided with food riots around the world, were attributed to anger about foreigners competing for limited resources arguably exacerbated by high food prices.Obviously, poverty is at the heart of the problem but what are the other causes?If you look at South Africa s less food secure neighbours, it is clear what the underlying causes are. Prevailing problems of political instability, civil strife, conflict, poor development in agriculture, non-inclusive growth and climate change all impact on food availability and affordability.In years to come, climate change, a phenomenon often described as temperature and rainfall variation, may have a substantial impact on global food production, creating food insecurity in the world s poorest regions. In South Africa it is predicted that changes in climate could cause maize production to drop by 10-20% over the next 50 years.What are possible short and long-term solutions?Food might seem like a fairly simple proposition when it s on our plates, but it is actually the product of an extremely complex global system. It s a system with so many loops and players that the journey from seed to plate is practically a mystery even to those who make their living in the many sectors involved in production and consumption of food.As a result, there is not one silver bullet. There are short-term quick fixes in food stamps and social grants and there are more challenging long-term solutions which will address not just food security, but also help South Africa deliver on many of the sustainable development goals.The long-term solutions require getting the fundamentals right. Stimulating inclusive economic growth deep enough to reach those living in extreme poverty complemented with stable political conditions, expansion of the agricultural sector, adequate social protection measures and the introduction of policy frameworks which support the natural resource base. Long-term solutions should include practices that ensure ecosystem health, productivity and resilience to a changing climate. And there is increasing evidence that actions to address climate change are by their very nature conducive to building stable macro-economic conditions.In view of the complexity of the system and the many points of strain made evident in the reality that millions of South Africans go to bed hungry, WWF and the Southern Africa Food Lab have collaborated in an effort to explore opportunities to propel the system onto a more stable trajectory.The project kicks off with a national workshop in Soweto on November 15 with participants from throughout the system including smallholder farmers, commercial farmers, retailers, government, academia and others. Their task will be to hammer out an agreement on what the solutions are and find a place in the system where they can intervene and be part of the solution going forward.Tatjana von Bormann represents WWF South Africa on the advisory board of the Southern Africa Food Lab