DEUTSCHE Bank has clarified its comments on Eskom after it was quoted as saying it believed all of Eskom s coal contracts and transactions that were part of the former public protector s recent report complied with correct procurement procedures.The bank expressed confidence in Eskom and the way it handled the controversial Tegeta coal contracts issue.However, Stuart Haslam, the head of communications for Deutsche Bank in the Middle East and Africa, said yesterday the statements referred to referenced independent analysis from Deutsche Bank s fixed-income research team which was issued following a conference call with Eskom on Friday. As the research is independent, it does not reflect the opinion of Deutsche Bank or its management, he said.Professional lobby group the Progressive Professionals Forum threw its weight behind Eskom on Friday, saying it was pleased with its achievements, leadership and professionalism. We are confident that Eskom is in great hands and support CEO Brian Molefe s commitment to black excellence and transformation, the forum said.Eskom, a state-owned company, came under attack last week with the release of the public protector s report on state capture. It fired another salvo in the Glencore/Tegeta coal supply saga, accusing Glencore of suggesting that Eskom had lied about coal contracts. Recent media reports that quoted Glencore as vehemently denying that it had ever proposed coal price increases of more than R300 a ton to Eskom cannot go unchallenged. It is unfortunate that Glencore has suggested that Eskom has lied about Optimum Coal Mine wanting to increase the coal prices to R570 a ton, Eskom said. Following failed attempts by Optimum to renegotiate and extend the coal supply agreement for the Hendrina Power Station at prices higher than the R150 a ton contractual agreement, Optimum later proposed a compromise deal .In terms of the proposed deal, the coal supply agreement to the Hendrina power station would be renegotiated at R300 a ton until 2018, and thereafter be extended to 2023 at R570 a ton. In a letter dated 30 June 2015, Optimum said: The base price for the first period and second period shall be escalated on each anniversary of the base date in accordance with a price adjustment factor which is to be calculated in accordance with an escalation table to be agreed between Eskom and Optimum. In another letter dated September 17, 2015, when Optimum was under business rescue, they proposed a price increase of R630 a ton and a coal supply agreement extension until 2023. In that letter, the business rescue practitioners proposed a coal price increase of R443 a ton with effect from October 1, 2015, to December 31, 2018. Thereafter the price would increase to R630 a ton until 2023. Eskom said it was not involved in the sale agreement between Glencore and Tegeta. All it was interested in was to ensure that the new owners were aware that the coal prices, volumes and quality would not be renegotiated or compromised and that the penalties imposed on Optimum would not be waivered. Nothing has changed since then even though Optimum Coal Mine is under new management, Eskom said