While passion and romance are fine, every couple should strive to keep the friendship in their relationship alive. However, it can be the worst when it gets boring with the same routine, hence it is extremely important to be adventurous in your relationship. It is not always about sex or intimacy that helps a relationship grow, it is also about the off-beat stuff every couple should do to make their relationship more fun. Here are a few things which are a must-try to make ‘being a couple’ more fun… Role exchange
As they say, variety is the spice of life, so is the case with relationships. One must always keep doing small interesting changes in the relationship so that it didn’t lack the zing. Frequent changes make sure boredom doesn’t set in and you keep enjoying the bond. Hence, exchanging roles from time to time is very important — try to take over each other’s responsibilities and make life simpler. Only if you share roles will you understand the difficulty they were facing while doing it, it only helps you understand them better. Healthy competition
Healthy competition keeps you active and also enhances your self confidence. Try to compete with each other at doing simple things that are of no professional or social consequence, but just for fun. Things like who climbs the stairs fast to open the door while on your way home or who makes the fastest mojito at your house party — these fun things can keep your sportsman spirit alive and can help you support and understand each other as friends, professionals and as people. Plan home parties
Everyone has their set of friends and we all like to hangout with them. However, the ideal thing for any couple is to have several common friends. This makes hanging out so much fun. Meeting friends together and spending time with them feel great, if done once in a while. It’s helps you break through from your usual routine, and also bring in some laughter in your lives. After all, being with friends is so much fun; their stories will help you understand various aspects of your relationship and help you enhance your bond. Bond while cooking
Not all couples do this, but those who do are truly awesome on their own way. Just imagine a lazy Sunday morning while both you and your partner are quickly whipping a scrumptious breakfast that you can enjoy with long chats about the week. Sounds exciting, isn’t it? Cooking together is an extremely fun exercise, firstly because only one partner is not burdened with the responsibility and secondly because, it’s always great to have a helping hand who will give that special touch to every dish you make. In fact, kitchen is one place where couples actually talk a lot, since even small things like which spice to add usually turns into a full fledged discussion. Learn together
One of the best ways to spend time with each other and go down the memory lane to your college days, is to learn something together. Be it a new language, a dance form, gardening or kickboxing — learning anything together makes learning even more fun. In fact, it not just helps you enhance your knowledge but also let’s you live that carefree student life again, be it a few hours. Moreover, one should be a learner all his life, learning new things broadens your perspective and betters you as a person, which further helps you strengthen your friendship. Reading sessions
Having a library at home is something that most young and well-read couples desire these days. However, with micro-housing being a norm in the city, it is next to impossible to have such a luxury in these pocket-sized apartments. However, every home does have a makeshift bookshelf where they stick some of their best collections. A cup of steamy coffee, your reading glasses on and your cozy lounge chair is all you need for that ideal evening date with your favorite book. Reading together can be one of the most romantically exciting activities a couple can indulge in and its quite fashionable. This article first appeared on The Times of India