You would expect a player who all but resembles a piece of large furniture at Kaizer Chiefs to bask in glory after masterminding his former side s downfall. But not so with Free State Stars goalkeeper Thela Ngobeni, who had a blinder of a game in bundling Chiefs out of the Telkom Knockout in Durban on Sunday.Ngobeni, starting ahead of last season s regular, Johnny Mathole, spent four years at Naturena and only got to play one competitive match. Then after joining Mamelodi Sundowns, he struggled to break through, resulting in him being loaned to Stars. On the evidence of the fantastic display against Chiefs, Ngobeni grabbed the opportunity with both hands. After frustrating the likes of Siphiwe Tshabalala during open play, Ngobeni saved two spot kicks in the penalty shoot-out.The Katlehong-born goal minder was deservedly named man of the match. Speaking afterwards, he remained modest about his performance. I prefer not to dwell on the past and I didn t have to prove anything to anyone, he said. At this stage I just need to focus on the opportunities ahead of me. At the age of 27, Ngobeni believes he still has a long road to travel. There s still a great career ahead of me and I need to focus and do well for the coach to give me more opportunities. I can still improve. You never know what s going to happen so at the moment I m happy and I m not thinking about any past issues. Meanwhile, Stars coach Giovanni Solinas credited his side s mental strength in reaching the Telkom Knockout semifinals. Both teams were fighting to win this game. It was a long game and finishing it on penalties was a lottery, the Italian coach said. I want to thank the because they kicked their penalties with heart. I also want to congratulate our opponents because they created a lot of chances and they came back in the game twice to make it a beautiful game. Having said that, I m very happy for my guys. I have to recognise the performance of our opponents they deserved better but these things happen in football. news@ thenewage. co.za-Linda Xamba