There was drama in the Tshwane council meeting yesterday when an ANC councillor was accused of sexually harassing a pregnant DA woman. The ANC hit back with electrifying accusations of their own.ANC member Joel Masilela has labelled as malicious allegations that he touched the DA s pregnant Jacqui Uys s buttocks during the city council sitting yesterday.Tshwane ANC spokesperson Tebogo Joala said that the allegation had become a trend and proof should be provided. They cannot come here and make such allegations without proof. They are very selfish, they are playing with the plight of vulnerable women members of the community while we are starting the national programme of 16 Days of No Violence against women and children. They are playing with emotions with this serious allegation, which should not be made as a joke. If there is proof, why did she not go to the police? he asked.Uys reported the assault to DA whip Ernst Botha, who raised the matter with the speaker, Rachel Mathebe. Mathebe asked Botha to withdraw his statement but he refused and changed his accusation from sexual assault to assault of a sexual nature .Earlier Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga said he would complete supplementary affidavits asserting that the deal entered into by the previous mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa s administration with Peu Capital Partners in 2013 for the roll-out of electricity smart meters should be declared unlawful.The contract has so far cost the city R2.6bn.The ANC in Tshwane declined to comment, citing that there was nothing new about the allegations.Msimanga said that the wrongdoings that had marred this contract from its very inception had serious ramifications for the city s ability to provide sustainable electricity to residents. We have decided to take the necessary steps to fix the mess created by the previous administration and in so doing it s our intention to extricate the city from this contract that threatens to bleed its resources, Msimanga said.So far only 13000 substandard and non-compliant meters have been installed out of 800000 meters needed at a cost of R830m before the contract was cancelled in May 2015 when the city said it could no longer afford it.He said that among the flaws in the contract, the procurement process unduly charged ahead despite warnings from the national and provincial Treasury s instruction not to go ahead with the deal. In accordance with the termination agreement negotiated by the previous administration effective on July 1, 2015, the city had to pay the balance of 10c of the original 19.5c into a separate ringfenced bank account which stands at R950m, Msimanga said.He said questions around the contract and its validity led to business lobby group AfriBusiness approaching the High Court in Pretoria in 2015.In July 2016 it succeeded in its application to stop the city from paying R950m to Peu for the meter infrastructure. The cost of cancelling the contract and effectively prevented the city from handing the infrastructure over to a new service provider. We maintain that the contract in its current incarnation forces the city to surrender much-needed revenue to a service provider which we do not need and which supplied equipment that did not meet the minimum requirements at a cost way above industry standards, he said.Msimanga said that presently, the substantive review of the decision to conclude this contract brought by Afrisake to have this contract declared invalid and set aside was welcomed in so far as invalidating the contract. However, this court action also presents challenges to the city which will have to continue to pay a commission of 9.5 cents for every rand of electricity sold, daily. As such we instructed our attorneys to find ways to redress this by rather having the funds paid into an escrow account. This will prevent Peu from using the city s financial resources to fight us in court, he said-KUTULLO MADISHA