The South African Local Government Association (Salga) exercises its mandates for the benefit of the local government sector and is legally mandated to represent and lobby for the sector, to act as an employer body, to build capacity in the sector, to support and advise the sector, to build knowledge resources and profile the sector as well as to create peer learning opportunities for the sector.The implementation of these mandates is broad in scope and many of them are process intensive and require major consultative processes just to have the issues placed on the table for discussion. It is not possible for each municipality to engage in these processes severally nor is it desirable to see many organisations implementing these mandates.The coordination of issues affecting the local government through multiple bodies has been tried and failed dismally to have the desired effect for the local government overall. It was for this reason that the provincial bodies were formally consolidated under the Salga banner in 2004.While metropolitan municipalities are generally considered to be well capacitated, they continue to benefit from Salga membership even though they are able to perform many functions Salga perform.Even so, the redistribution of resources through Salga enables capacity to be built in lesser capacitated municipalities.A tremendous amount of effort has been put into the de-fragmentation of local government as an institution and a number of its processes, like collective bargaining. De-fragmentation has also been judiciously applied to the organs comprising organised local government (OLG). In the lobbying and representation of the sector, OLG has represented local government in a number of intergovernmental platforms like the NCOP and the Financial and Fiscal Commission (FCC). Including all the metropolitan municipalities within these platforms is simply not feasible as they may not speak with one voice.Salga has acted as an employer body and has consolidated the bargaining between municipalities and labour. In the city of Johannesburg for example, collective bargaining occurred in multiple platforms, right down to divisional level. The de-fragmentation of this bargaining process has allowed the entire sector to conclude in one platform multiyear wage agreements. This has stabilised labour relations in the local government sector and has kept disruptions due to strikes to a minimum. This saves members time, effort and resources that can be used for service delivery objectives.Salga has represented the interests of councillors and ensured they received training they need to fulfil their mandates. To this end, Salga has trained more than 8800 councillors in the last five years. More than 800 leaders and senior managers have been trained in the sector through partnerships Salga has created with a number of universities and business schools in the last five years.Such training goes back to the early years of Salga when the transformation of the sector required the training of a new crop of administrators to occupy positions in the newly created local government structures. Salga has promoted transformation and capacity development in all municipalities. OLG has therefore contributed substantially to quality improvements in oversight and accountability, without much appreciation for this valuable service.Salga has worked behind the scenes to ensure that its members interests are considered and that its mandate is carried out to the benefit of its members. The equitable share revision in 2012 that favoured local government was directly as a result of Salga lobbying and recent work around the costing of services will further add grist to the mill of Salga s unceasing efforts to ensure its members have the resources they need.Metropolitan municipalities may not feel these efforts directly but the absence of these centralised services will be felt in indirect ways. OLG is singular in the intergovernmental and local government legislation and it is historically clear that the fragmentation of OLG is not desirable for the local government sector.It is simply not viable to introduce individual municipalities into this equation as the regulatory environment may need to be amended to accommodate such eventualities.Mpho NawaMpho Nawa is Salga deputy chairperson