Victoria Hospital, a private health institution in Mahikeng donated shoes to 463 pupils at Molapisi Primary School in Top village on the outskirts of the provincial capital.The donation came after the health institution realised that many children go to school without proper shoes. Molapisi Primary School has a longrunning cordial relationship with the local hospital going back as far as 2005. The relationship started when former school governing body (SGB) chairperson Queen Khabane was in charge of the school.Victoria Hospital spokesperson Ruth Lutalo said the shoes were a direct contribution by staff members who saw it fit to extend a helping hand to the needy. Lutalo thanked those who contributed, saying they put smiles on the faces of the children. These school shoes were made possible by hospital doctors and staff. They contributed money so that we can buy school shoes for all the school pupils. We were targeting needy pupils but realised that we must give to everyone. I would like to thank them a lot for making this project possible, she said.Lutalo urged the excited pupils to look after their shoes and study hard to become change agents in their community. You must take education seriously and listen to your teachers all the time. You must take part in school extramural activities. I want everyone to be active and healthy. Next year you must visit the hospital to see daily operations, she said.School principal Linkie Seipelo thanked the hospital for contributing towards the pupils welfare. The pupils come from poor background as their parents are not working. This is a good gesture to all of us and we are indeed thankful. In these hot conditions, the shoes will go a long way to giving dignity and a sense of pride to the pupils, she said.Seipelo s words were echoed by SGB chairperson Connie Mangengenene who said more interventions were needed at the school. We are happy for our pupils and we want to see a lot more done to upgrade the standards at the school. There is overcrowding in some classes and we really need extra classrooms, she said. Pupils jumped with joy upon receiving the new shoes and some said they would like to thank the hospital for the gesture.elfast@thenewage.co.za