The provincial health department said it was rolling out patient transport to help ease the travelling of the weak and frail to care facilities.Health MEC, Dr Magome Masike said that the provincial DA was jumping the gun by insinuating that the department was doing nothing in alleviating the plight of commuting patients.The DA spokesperson for health and social development in the province, Dr Tutu Faleni, lamented the loss of money by pensioners and other vulnerable groups as they hire transport to go to health facilities. Many pensioners have to hire private transport to take them home after they have received treatment or collected medication from the hospitals and clinics. This costs them up to R1000 for private transport that collects them from hospitals and clinics and drops them off at home, Faleni said.He said some frail pensioners were transported in wheelbarrows, putting them at risk of further injuries. We call upon the health department to act swiftly to ensure our elderly and frail are better taken care of. Interim transport arrangement should be put in place. It is our strong view that it is a violation of the constitutional right to dignity that the frail and medically unfit pensioners are transported in wheelbarrows and that absence of transport to take the frail and medically unfit pensioners from clinics to their homes is tantamount to violating their constitutional right to quality medical care, he said.However, Masike said he had indicated during his budget speech that access to health services would be further broadened via planned patient transport. The new planned patient transport vehicles will be given to each sub-district to ensure the smooth flow of patients between health facilities. Already, we have 20 new planned patient transport vehicles that were put into service. A vehicle was given to each sub-district. This has had a positive impact on the transport of non-emergency patients, he said.The MEC said with the planned patient transport the department expects inter-facility transport to improve, thus increasing community access to health services. Our mandate is to make health accessible, so, a planned patient transport system should also assist us in cases where some of our clinics close early. Such planned transport will then be available to transport patients to a nearby open facility, thereby ensuring there is access, he said.Masike said the planned patient transport is targeting non-emergency patients who do not necessarily need an ambulance but are just in need of transport to get to the health facility. Such patients include the elderly and persons with disabilities who are not able to go to the facilities by themselves. The target market also extends to patients who are in communities that are far away from facilities and struggle with access to public transport, he said.Once fully operational, Masike said the system would bring an end to the challenges ptients faced.Elfas Toreraielfast@thenewage.co.za