SOCIAL Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini and her department got a roasting from the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) for R1.1bn spent on irregular expenditure.The biggest contribution to the splurge was R316m spent on the registration of grant beneficiariesand R414m paid to the providers of physical security services. Lease payments amounted to R223m with R74m accounting for forensic investigations for the year 2014-15Committee members of Scopa were agitated by the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) over its handling of its affairs.Sassa was there this week to explain its affairs to Scopa, including its irregular expenditure, fruitless and wasteful expenditure.The story that it had to tell was not a good one.Neither, for that matter, was Dlamini s explanation for irregular and fruitless expenditure. Also bad news to the unbelieving ears was the retelling of the legacy of Sassa s former CEO, Virginia Petersen.The agency, which prides itself on paying the right social grant to the right person at the right time and place, blew R1.1bn on irregular payments in the 2014-15 financial year.Members of Scopa were livid at this flagrant wastage.They systematically stripped apart the Sassa presentation, telling new CEO Thokozani Magwaza that the buck stopped with him .He was put on notice that in terms of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) he will be held responsible.Petersen, his predecessor, was absent, but her stewardship of Sassa had MPs calling for a criminal investigation into her conduct.The DA s Tim Brauteseth said: There are no consequences. There must be a criminal investigation into Virginia Petersen. She appears to have been involved in interfering with several contracts, such as the R316m one, as well as the R414m physical security contract. She must be investigated. The question is, was there anything in this for Virginia Petersen? ANC stalwart Nyami Booi supported him. It has gone beyond fruitless and wasteful expenditure. We call for a criminal investigation. We want to deal with anyone who is in front of us. It s not only Virginia. Minister Dlamini had to explain her contribution to the Mikondzo R1.2m wasteful expenditure.She said: We could not attend the Mikondzo event on March 30 because of deployment by the office of the President. I could not say no. The deputy minister was also not able to come. We also looked for other ministers or deputy ministers. No one was available. I must say it s regrettable that this had to happen. Scopa chairperson Themba Godi was curious to know if Dlamini s office had told the Presidency that expenses would be incurred if she ditched the Mikondzo event.Godi: I m looking at this R1.2m. It s a lot of money to be lost purely due to a cancellation. Dlamini: I want to be honest chairperson we did not write a letter to say we have this event. I think this was a very wrong decision on my part. We should have done that. The ordeal was not over for the Sassa delegation. There was still the matter of R4m relating to motor vehicle accidents involving officials while on duty.When 1pm came, it came as a relief to the team. They were roasted and were asked to return for another grilling on Wednesday.-DENNIS CRUYWAGEN