Kuruman in the Northern Cape has been dubbed the area with the highest recorded incidents of human trafficking.According to Hawks spokesperson Capt Philani Nkwalase Kuruman has the highest reported cases in the province with four reported in the last financial year. The town was also identified as a major contributing area to human trafficking challenges, hence a march was held in the CBD.Trafficking is a serious crime and a violation of human rights. Every year, thousands of men, women and children fall into the hands of traffickers in their own countries and abroad.A 21-year-old woman from Kuruman is the latest victim of human trafficking to emerge from the area. The mother of the young woman, whose identity is being protected, said she was abducted when she was only 13.The mother said her daughter returned as a broken young woman, addicted to drugs, a school dropout who lives in constant fear of her abductors. Hawks officials said the family continues to be threatened.The victim s mother said: It is painful as a parent, but I found her there with the police and social workers. From there she went to rehab for a year. I thought that she would change but nothing has changed. Nkwalase said: Traffickers employ meticulous methods to recruit women and young girls to the business of prostitution. Some victims come from other provinces while others come from different towns in the province. He said traffickers circumstances vary. Some young girls disappear from home without a trace, others are lured with job opportunities far from home and get introduced to the world of drugs. Once hooked, they are forced into prostitution to maintain their addiction.Nkwalase said there are intelligencedriven operations done on a continuous basis to close identified houses used for prostitution in the province . Several awareness campaigns have been conducted in different schools in the villages of Kuruman and surroundings. Different radio stations were visited in the Northern Cape to sensitise the youth as well as community members about the crime, Nkwalase saidThe Northern Cape Hawks have pleaded with residents to take precautions, to help fight human trafficking and to help prevent their children from being victims of traffickers.Property owners and landlords were sensitised to be aware of whom they were accommodating, renting or leasing their property. They must ensure they have the full particulars of the occupants including their nationality and contact details and must be aware of their activities, whether legal or illegal. Our community must be on the lookout for any strange movements or incidents and report such irregularities to the police for investigation. Parents must not use girls for sexual exploitation, for financial gain. Such incidents should be reported to the police for investigation. Women and young girls must not be misled by promises of employment opportunities, if it is too good to be true, it is probably a trap. If promises are too good to be true in terms of free transportation and good salaries as well as working conditions and accommodation, be alert. People must be careful about handing over ID documents to strangers, as some girls are being married to foreigners without their knowledge or under false pretences in order to gain South African citizenship. Parents must know where their children are going, especially when for employment purposes. Full details of the employer must be obtained including street address, landline telephone numbers and a follow up must be done to verify the authenticity of the information received before releasing their kids, he said.CHARLOTE HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.za