Government’s missing middle students plan is ready for implementation and will be piloted to students enrolled for scarce skills professions at various universities and other training institutions next year. Missing middle students are those who do not qualify for funding from the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) as their parents are employed but do not earn enough to afford university tuition fees. NSFAS chairperson and the head of the Ministerial Task Team (MTT) investigating a comprehensive funding model for poor and missing middle students, Sizwe Nxasana, said cabinet had already reviewed the MTT’s full report. It had approved the new Ikusasa Student Financial Aid Programme pilot project to be implemented at various universities and one TVET college in 2017 to test certain aspects of the model. “The pilot will run in parallel to a feasibility study on the model, which will be performed in line with national Treasury regulations. For this pilot, the MTT has set a target of R200m for about 2000 students studying towards scarce skills professions,” Nxasana said. He said targeted study courses included medicine, pharmacology, actuarial sciences, engineering, chartered accountancy, artisan courses such as welding and plumbing, and courses in the humanities and general sciences. “Students funded through the pilot would be supported to the conclusion of their programmes. Although ISFAP’s full vision addresses both the poor and missing middle, the pilot would for now be restricted to the “missing middle”, with NSFAS continuing to support the poor through its current model,” Nxasana said. He said that if the pilot was successful and a decision was made to roll out ISFAP, the NSFAS student-centred model would then be integrated into the new scheme. Nxasana’s team recommended that the funding for the missing middle project be raised from government education and training departments, non-profit organisations, private sector B-BBEE skills levy and skills development expenditure, development finance institutions, foundations, local and international donors, the private sector, individuals, and retirement funds as well as social impact bonds. Funding for students would then come as a mix of grants, loans and family contributions. “Over and above paying for tuition, accommodation, books, food and a stipend, it is proposed that ISFAP-funded students also receive support, including study skills, induction, social networks and emotional wellbeing training, as well as life skills such as time and stress management,” Higher Education and Training director general Gwebinkundla Qonde. Batandwa Malingo batandwam@thenewage.co.za