The BRICS u17 Football cup in India, was important for the National u17 team to take part in, the team’s head coach Molefi Ntseki said. The tournament was played in Goa India on October 15 with Brazil winning it.
“It was also key for our players to participate, which I think helped with the growth of the players mentally, and the experience of playing in a tournament,” Ntseki said to SAFA.NET. The tournament featured five BRICS countries, the team beat hosts India and played to a draw against China. The U17’s lost to winners Brazil 5-0. The coach also says that South Africa needs to focus more on grass root programme, especially the one that is being done by SAFA aimed at kids between the ages of 6 and 12. “I think if we do it properly within that period of development we can use it to recruit more football players into the programme – it should be a marketing tool for football because in recent times football is no longer the sport for every South African kid,” Ntseki said. Ntseki said that from his interactions with coaches from Brazil and Belguim, they are working on a six year programme,”which has the u12 coming from the grassroots programme, then the first two years they have a programme, a curriculum for kids who are under 12 ,and they will do the same with the u14 and u16,” added the coach, discussing which other countries are developing talent. “At the moment we have a situation where most of our players are not developed in totality in terms of the five pillars of development – technical, tactical, physical, mental and social – it is only in such tournaments that you notice that these are the areas the boys are lacking in,” the head coach explained. “The football game as a whole has so many challenges and all of them have to be worked on, trained and coached so that a player can have an understanding and is able to execute” the coach explained. Ntseki said that there should be more programmes running throughout the country, it would create interest for kids of a particular age group they play, making it a lot of fun and also offer a education element in the process. The U17 mentor said that talent is identified according to the style of that country. “In our case, we have talented players but if we can have those systems in place it will be very easy for a national team coach to bring players into camp and work on the tactics mainly, before going into a tournament,” he stated highlighting the manner with which the current developmental system is operating. TNA Reporter