CAPE Town was one of the world s emerging energy capitals, mayor Patricia de Lille said yesterday at the opening of the 2016 World Energy Cities Partnership AGM. It is a privilege for me to welcome 13 cities from the World Energy Cities Partnership (WECP) to our city, she said.De Lille said apart from the AGM, from last week there was also the World Energy Cities Partnership, Windaba and its sister conference WindAc Africa, as well as Africa Oil and Gas Week.Cape Town, she said, was not only becoming a place for industry leaders to think about their energy development strategies, it was also a place which was leading the way in energy sector development across all sources of energy. In Cape Town we understand the opportunities in developing a renewable energy sector. The city has worked with the Western Cape government, GreenCape and the national government to develop the Atlantis GreenTech Park, which we hope will be declared a special economic zone . At this time more than R680m in investment in various green industries has happened in this area, and there is more than R1bn worth of further investments in the pipeline. To date, about 300 direct jobs have been created in the area. De Lille said they were proud of the developing oil and gas sector. Cape Town companies were well represented across the value chain of the oil and gas industry. As with any international city of a similar size, Cape Town has a well-developed downstream oil and gas industry, with a relatively strong outbound logistics network and established wholesalers and retailers of products. In terms of midstream capacity, the presence of one of only five refineries in South Africa in our city, which produces 110000 barrels per day, means we are a large producer of refined petroleum. The development of new fuel terminal, storage and distribution facilities at the port of Cape Town will further enhance this city s role in midstream activities. Arguably the most competitive part of the Cape Town region s oil and gas value chain is its support services for upstream oil and gas activities. This includes metal fabrication, steel pipe manufacturing, rig and ship repair, engineering services, hydraulic systems, marine logistics and geological and seismic surveying. The city s relative proximity to an offshore production region, together with its advanced infrastructure and livability, had meant that a number of the world s largest oil companies had established regional head offices in the city. Their work is supported by many international firms. &#8211;TNA Reporter