Not anybody could have predicted that at only 28 years old, Tlou Segolela would be stuck at home without a team to call his own. Barely three years ago Segolela was at the heart of Orlando Pirates doubletreble triumph. The speedy winger also contributed immensely to the Buccaneers making it to the 2013 CAF Champions League final.This was followed, however, by limited game time and a move to Platinum Stars, which did not yield much joy for the former Bafana Bafana player. Now a free agent open to joining any team at any time , he is confident that he will find a new club by January when teams bolster their squads for the second half of the season. Having seen a possible move to Polokwane City collapse, Segolela said he was in talks with a few teams. I will not lie and say this has not affected me negatively. It is really tough. What I am going through is something I can never wish on anyone. I am passionate about this game and when you can t find a team, you feel like you are losing your mind every day, Segolela said. I have a personal trainer at the moment who is helping me with my fitness. He is pushing me really hard. I can say things are looking good because there are people we are talking to, but I cannot say at the moment because details are sensitive. I am confident that I will have a team by January. I am a free agent and that means I can join any team that is interested as soon as tomorrow. While Segolela won t mention the clubs interested in him, it is understood that Golden Arrows, Maritzburg United and Highlands Park are looking to snap him up. The player, who is nicknamed Gautrain because of his speed, said other than keeping fit and looking for a team, he is organising his annual Tlou Segolela Annual Festive Tournament that helped unearth Baroka FC trickster Tshepo Skhwama Matete.Segolela said while he may not have a team, he is still committed to giving youngsters around the Moletjie area in Limpopo a chance at professional football. The tournament is going on as normal. We are still keeping with our vision to give more youngsters a chance at professional football. We will once again be hosting the tournament in Mabokelele. The launch of the tournament will be next month. I am happy that someone like Matete, who Baroka spotted at our tournament, is playing in the PSL and showing people that anything is possible. mmasekepem@thenewage. co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane