State Security Minister David Mahlobo yesterday said that he would not take the allegations of his links to a rhino poaching syndicate lying down. Speaking at an event hosted by the Institute of Security Studies (ISS) under the theme, Can State Intelligence Help Prevent Violent Protests, Mahlobo described reports that he had links to an illegal rhino horn trafficker as gutter journalism . Our legal teams are studying the material and are going to go to every level to deal with the particular allegation. Let us not only reduce the matter to (the broadcast in) Al Jazeera. This one I can assure you &#8230; this thing that there are certain people that are going to tarnish people s image. This should not go unchallenged, Mahlobo said.He said he had requested the police to conduct a thorough investigation into the allegations and if they were to find any wrongdoing on his part, he would be prepared to face the consequences. I m not above the law. I have said let them investigate and when they are done with the investigation, and if I happen to do criminal activities, I am prepared to face the music. An Al Jazeera documentary, Poachers Pipeline, recently linked Mahlobo to nefarious activities with a rhino horn syndicate. But Mahlobo has discredited the reports and poured cold water on a claim that his wife had business links with the syndicate. My wife has never been interviewed. There have never been questions sent to her, but I have requested the police to investigate the matter. If the minister has a relationship, they ll have an opportunity to look at my bank accounts and my wife s. If journalism was of a high quality, they would have asked my wife if she had a company and whether she had done business with these people. Mahlobo was critical of how the reports had debased his integrity as a minister and as a member of the ANC. There s no demonstrable evidence, even a shred of evidence that these things happened. I m very disappointed on how the matter got sensationalised. It is so reckless. It has an impact on my integrity. I m a leader in the government. This has put the Cabinet of President Jacob Zuma into disrepute. I m also a member of the ANC NEC and NWC. bonolos@thenewage.co.za-Bonolo Sellebano