South Africa’s new vehicle sales fell 10.1% year on year, to 48745 units, in October. Data from the Trade and Industry Department showed yesterday that vehicle sales have taken a dip from the previous year. The National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa (Naamsa) said that conditions in the new vehicle market have remained extremely difficult characterised by double-digit or near double-digit year on year declines in all segments. In contrast, export sales of new motor vehicles had reflected a noteworthy year on year improvement. October’s results aggregate new vehicle sales at 48745 units registering a decline of 10.1% compared to the 54239 vehicles sold in October last year. Aggregate industry export sales were at 30718 vehicles for October thus 2016 reflected an increase of 10.8% compared to the 27719 vehicles exported in October last year. Overall, of the total reported industry sales of 48745 vehicles, an estimated 77.8% represented dealer sales, 16.5% represented sales to the vehicle rental industry, 4.1% represented industry corporate fleet sales and 1.6% sales to the government. The consumer-driven new car market continued to experience pressure last month, thus the contribution by the car rental industry accounted for 23.6% of all new cars sold during the month. Naamsa said that, domestically, the short to medium term outlook remained extremely challenging. Double digit new vehicle price inflation, pressure on household disposable incomes, low levels of business confidence and relatively high interest rates continued to impact on new vehicle sales. The lower levels of new vehicle sales reflect the difficult economic conditions in South Africa. The Purchasing Managers Index suggested a difficult start for the manufacturing sector to the fourth quarter of 2016. On the other hand the latest Reserve Bank leading indicators had registered positive growth for the first time in three years and represented the biggest month on month increase in the past two years. Thelma Ngoma thelman@thenewage.co.za