AFRICANS based in London, UK will get a taste of Yvonne Chaka Chaka s smash hits when she performs at the Afrikafest set for the Copper Box Arena, a multisport venue used for the 2012 Summer Olympics.The third edition of the Afrikafest is billed for next Saturday and Chaka Chaka is expected to belt out her greatest hits for her diaspora fans at the event.Nigerian comedians Emmanuella,Uncle Denilson and Mark Angel, popular Ugandan clowning queen Anne Kansiime and British-Congolese comic Eddie Kadi complete the Afrikafest line up. The Afrikafest is bringing African artists to the UK and I m the first female to perform there.There are a lot of Africans in the UK hence the relevance of this festival, Chaka Chaka said. Her UK fans, some who have been following her music for more than two decades, have taken to social media asking her to sing their favourite classics.Umqombothi has topped that list while Every Woman Needs A Man and Take My Love It s Free have also featured quite a lot.The Princess of Africa will also pay tribute to two departed fellow musicians. I m also going to do tributes to Brenda Fassie and Margaret Singana. When I perform I always put in songs of people I like, Brenda has always been loved. Margaret has always been a great star, she said. In fact, the internationally acclaimed singer and songwriter has an album dedicated to Singana, the late Afro-soul songstress who died in 2000.At the core of Yvonne s music is her call for social equity and justice, a powerful tool she has used to be the voice of the poor and voiceless across the African continent, for more than 30 years. She has established herself as a champion for the Global Fund to fightShe has established herself as a champion for the Global Fund to fight Aids,TB and malaria.Afrikafest organiser Johnson Mujungu is convinced Chaka Chaka will sing songs that embody her ubuntu mantra. The concert will be a vibrant collection of iconic songs. Her music reflects her creative force and her years of dedication to a life in music and humanitarian work, Mujungu said.Chaka Chaka has been at the forefront of local music for almost three decades and her fan base stretches beyond the borders of South Africa. mtokozisid@thenewage.co.zaMTHOKOZISI DUBE