THE clash between the Premiership s form sides SuperSport United and Bidvest Wits at the Mbombela stadium tonight at 7.30pm promises to be an epic affair. The contest will see the two teams who are emerging as possible title candidates battling it out in an upper bracket encounter in Nelspruit. Log leaders Wits are yet to experience defeat in the league this season.They have amassed 20 points from eight matches, three points ahead of third place Matsatsantsa a Pitori who are undefeated in their last 12 competitive matches. Other than their encouraging run in the league, Gavin Hunt s Clever Boys have already won the MTN8, while United defeated Orlando Pirates at the weekend to reach the Telkom Knockout final.It is hard to predict who will have the upper hand as both teams are on top of their game. SuperSport midfielder Thabo Mnyamane has settled in well since his move from neighbours University of Pretoria and has scored in matches against Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates.Meanwhile, Wits striker Eleazar Rodgers has been a handful for opposition defenders, scoring goals at will while also setting up his teammates. SuperSport coach Stuart Baxter is encouraged by the team s unbeaten run ahead of what is likely to be their biggest test to date. The unbeaten run is good, but it could have been even greater because in two or three of the games we were very close to winning the games and it could have been two or three more victories, Baxter said. We can play better in certain periods of certain games. I am not 100% pleased with my team but I am pleased that we forced a win against Pirates. This is not for selfish reasons but because it is what I am paid for. I m paid for preparing players to play games of football, developing players, helping their confidence and their understanding, as well as improving their technical ability. I think we have done that in the short time that we have been together. But there is still a need to keep going. Wits will be looking to bounce back from their 2-2 draw against Highlands Park in their previous match to consolidate their position at the top.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza