RECORDING his third studio album, Naninina,has served as a healing process for crooner Vusi Nova.Having admitted to overcoming drug addiction and recently opening up about the pain of losing his mother to HIV-Aids, it appears that the Port Elizabeth-born singer is coming to terms with some of the hardships of life.Speaking to The New Age, the gifted vocalist said the 18 months of recording his most personal album yet helped put things in perspective. The album has become a form of healing for me, Nova said. It is the most personal album of all my previous albums. With Naninina I practically bare my soul and this has also been the feedback I ve been receiving since the release of the album almost three months ago. I guess what I talk about, the experiences of losing my parents and the person I was in love with for almost four years resonates with the people. He said talking about things he had kept a secret for most of his life had encouraged him to never to take things for granted. I put my mother through hell with my drug addiction.When I lost her, I had already started doing drugs but after the loss things got out of hand. I just hope that wherever she is, she is proud of the person I have become.Nova said his mother was the strongest woman he had ever known. She was practically a single mother as my father died when I was just two years old, he said. Besides raising me, she always supported me and encouraged me to pursue my music career. This is something unheard of in most black families.For that I will forever be grateful. With his single already reaching gold status recently, the Sama-nominated singer is looking to increase the tally to platinum before the year ends. The album is doing well on the Musica charts and we have just gone gold just over two weeks ago, Nova said. The feedback and support has been encouraging.We are on course to go platinum with the promotion of the album still going strong. Standout songs on the album include the title track Naninina and the remake of Brenda Fassie s classic Memeza.Other songs to look out for include Ndikuthandile and the heartbreaking Ndonele, in which he shares his disappointment with a wayward lover who plays him for a fool.Thandiwe is also another great song in this soul-stirring album. Nova said he was grateful that after many of his transgressions, he still has an opportunity to live his dream. Not many people get to live their dreams, he said. I am living mine and that can happen to other people who have faced the same if not worse things in life. You just have to work hard. siyabongas@thenewage.co.zaSIYABONGA SITHOLE