The Save South Africa campaign was dealt a blow on Tuesday when the 101 group of ANC stalwarts and veterans announced that they would not participate in today s launch of the people s motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma.The campaign is led by another ANC veteran and now mining boss Sipho Pityana. Yesterday, ANC stalwart Wally Serote and spokesperson for the 101 group said that the ANC veterans and stalwarts who met with the party s national working committee (NWC) on Monday would not have their discussions with the party sidetracked by Save SA leader Sipho Pityana s initiative. No, the veterans are not part of that movement and we will not participate to enforce a motion of no confidence. We are in discussion with the (ANC) NWC and on Friday, we ll be at the national executive committee (NEC) meeting, Serote said.He said that the veterans initiatives to tackle the ANC s state of affairs could not be jeopardised by Pityana s campaign to remove Zuma from office. Our focus is the discussions with the NWC and the NEC. That is what we are focusing on and so far our discussions have gone very well, Serote said.Serote s comments come against the background of a robust meeting between a group of the party s veterans and the ANC s NWC on Monday outside Pretoria. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said that the party would consider the veterans call for a consultative conference.Serote, making reference to the veterans push for a consultative conference, said that the matter would top the agenda on their meeting with the ANC NEC on Friday. We tabled the issue with the NWC and they ve asked us to clarify the processes and principles so that when we discuss it on Friday, we discuss it on that basis, he said.Serote said that while he could not pre-empt the outcome of the discussions on the matter, he was confident that the ANC would accede to its veterans demands. I can say to you that having been asked to clarify things indicates that there is a willingness to listen and more importantly to discuss and find a solution regarding a national consultative conference, he said.Serote said that the veterans agreed to show due regard to ANC internal processes before making public comments on the party s leadership that could be construed as divisive. It s a top priority we discussed it among ourselves that we can agree that at a certain point we should go public about certain things especially on the basis of an agreement, he said.He added that a national consultative conference would be the first step towards restoring unity within the ruling party. The most important thing is that the national consultative conference has everything that derailed our movement on its agenda. We have to come out of the conference a united ANC, that brings back the values, traditions, culture and customs, he said.Save SA spokesperson Anso Thom said that while individual ANC veterans could be part of the launch, she could not confirm whether the 101 group would participate as a collective. We have some veterans who have been involved and continue to be involved but if people will be supporting as a collective, you ll have to ask them, Thom said.Bonolo Selebano| bonolos@thenewage.co.za