A partnership between the Walter Sisulu Paediatric Cardiac Foundation (WSPCF), the Vodacom Foundation and the Red Cross War Memorial Children s Hospital has resulted in 50 children receiving a new lease on life.A total of 50 children underwent life-saving surgery since November last year after the partnership was formed.Despite the several factors that contributed to the length of the waiting list and the estimated waiting period, the partnership has had a significant impact. Patients waiting for cardiac surgery had decreased from more than 200 to about 120. This shows a waiting period of about five months.The WSPCF is the largest philanthropic paediatric cardiac centre on the African continent, established as a living legacy to the late Walter Sisulu, which focuses on the delivery of lifesaving cardiac surgery and intervention for underprivileged children from across Africa.CEO of the Walter Sisulu Paediatric Cardiac Foundation, Tumi Sisulu, said: The Walter Sisulu Paediatric Cardiac Foundation is proud to be part of this incredible project with the Red Cross War Memorial Children s Hospital. We are most grateful to our sponsor and long-standing partner, the Vodacom Foundation, which has been with us since the inception of the project and made all of this possible. The impact on the lives of the children and their families is truly immeasurable. The funding provided by the WSPCF covers some staff costs, as well as some cardiac surgical supplies and has increased the hospital s capacity to perform cardiac surgery and enabled them to significantly increase the number of cardiac operations done since November last year. At the same time, they are helping the hospital in getting closer to meeting the demands placed on the service.The Vodacom Foundation that stressed every child deserved the chance to reach their full potential in life, was a valued partner of the WSPCF and worked closely with them to provide funding to save children s hearts.The executive head of the Vodacom Foundation, Mthobeli Tengimfene, said: The WSPCF partnership with Red Cross Children s Hospital has made a significant impact not only on the lives of the children assisted, but also on the ongoing work carried out by the hospital on a daily basis. All children deserve the chance to reach their full potential in life and we are privileged to partner the hospital in helping these youngsters. This is in line with Vodacom s purpose of connecting people to live a better today and build a better tomorrow. Red Cross War Memorial Children s Hospital, which is the provincial centre for paediatric cardiac surgery attached to the University of Cape Town, said it is also very thrilled with the achievements made thus far.The medical manager at the Red Cross War Memorial Children s Hospital, Dr Anita Parbhoo, said: We are extremely thankful to the Walter Sisulu Paediatric Cardiac Foundation and their sponsor, Vodacom, for partnering with us to allow our staff to change the lives of so many children with cardiac conditions. These children may otherwise still have been on a waiting list. We look forward to a continued collaboration with them. NADINE FORD-KRITZINGERnadinef@thenewage.co.za