Five firearms were confiscated by the police during operations at the weekend which included one found on a 12-year-old Mitchell s Plain pupil who was threatening his schoolmates.Police said they were working around the clock with the aim to create a safer and peaceful festive season.The past week saw 51 operations conducted by the Mitchell s Plain SAPS Cluster in Lentegeur, Strandfontein, Philippi, Grassy Park, Lansdowne, Steenberg and Mitchell s Plain.These cluster crime prevention operations were driven by the Cluster Commander Maj-Gen Gregory Goss.Police targeted the areas where most crimes were generated, identified and the crime patterns determined accordingly.The operations also saw police focus on the tracing of wanted suspects. Shopping malls were constantly being monitored and police interacted with businesses and those visiting the malls.Safety educational campaigning had also begun which includes hints contained in pamphlets that were distributed in the malls.Provincial police spokesperson Capt FC Van Wyk yesterday said: Police action resulted in the arrest of a 26-year-old male suspect at Calypso Square Mitchell s Plain when they confiscated a knife from him. Conducting stops and searches forms part of the high density crime prevention operations. At a primary school in Eastridge Mitchell s Plain, police confiscated a 9mm pistol from a pupil after it was reported that he was threatening other pupils. The pistol was traced to Polokwane where a robbery was reported in 2007. Following the confiscation of the firearm, police addressed pupils and teachers of the primary school concerning the incident.The operations also saw roadblocks and vehicle check points held and resulted in the issuing of 20 fines to the value of R22500 for various road traffic offences.Police urged all road users to refrain from driving while intoxicated as they were posing a danger to themselves and other road users bearing in mind that lives could be lost or badly ruined.Patrolling the shopping malls on foot including the Town Centre in Mitchell s Plain, several people were scanned on a mobile device checking their status on whether they were wanted for any criminal activities. Four suspects for whom warrants of arrest were issued were arrested during tracing operations. The warrants of arrest were issued for crimes involving armed robbery, housebreaking and theft and contempt of court. Police will maintain their zero tolerance approach in the combatting and investigation of crime. We appeal to the communities to make use of the rewards system that police have in place. Rewards in the form of money are given for information on crime and the perpetrators thereof, Van Wyk said.Anyone with information on crime should contact Crime Stop on 0860010111 or the local police station.nadinef@thenewage.co.za