Gauteng education may be leading the pack in the provision of smart technology in classes but its still battling to get rid of unsuitable school structures.The province is yet to eradicate at least 20 schools built using asbestos fibre from which, when inhaled over long periods, can cause fibrotic lung disease, and asbestosis.A report on the implementation of minimum norms and standards for school infrastructure by the department has revealed that of the 20 schools were identified in 2013 to be improved, none of them had been completed due to previous commitments . When the regulations were published in November 2013, the 2014/15 project list was finalised no new projects could be added, the report read. When the 2015-16 project list was compiled, only six of the 20 schools could be included because of contractual commitments flowing from the 2014-15 financial year. These six schools will be completed in 2017. As funds had now to be redirected from the asbestos project to the smart school one only two of the remaining schools that need to be replaced will be included in the current financial cycle.At least 68 schools in the country have no sanitation facilities while 4 986 have only pit latrines.Of the more than 23 500 schools in the country, 171 have no water supply and 569 have no electricity.Despite the backlog, the Department of Basic Education said a lot of progress had been made to improve school infrastructure around the country. Speaking on SAfm yesterday, department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said there was finally a uniform approach to infrastructure delivery.This was a step in the right direction and the progress made to date was pleasing. The first phase has been successful. We did not do all we needed to do but we made good progress. In the next phase, we will make sure every school has water, sanitation and electricity speedily. According to the department, through the accelerated schools infrastructure delivery initiative, more than 170 schools out of a targeted 510 have been improved. A further 126 schools are at various stages of finalisation and 54 of those schools will be completed in the course of the 2016-17 financial year.LILLIAN SELAPISA lillians@thenewage.co.za