The department of education has applauded a pupil who represented the province well during the national Spelling Bee championships at the weekend in Pretoria.Department spokesperson Geoffrey van der Merwe, said nine-year-old Mayuri Govender did exceptionally well during both the provincial and national competitions. An accomplishment of this nature reflects the potential, commitment and hard work that was put in. Indeed, we are very proud of our little diamond, Van der Merwe said.He said the competition not only provided a valuable educational learning experience for pupils, but also allows them to engage in healthy competition. Pupils gain competency over vocabulary and this allows them to excel at reading and writing. It instils self confidence to speak in public and accept their mistakes, while also getting the applause their hard work deserves, Van der Merwe said. The number of schools that enrolled for participation has grown tremendously in relation to previous years In 2016, 224 pupils from all five districts and one home school qualified for the district eliminations. This competition demonstrates the importance of the three pillars on which the basic education system depends, namely public ordinary schools, independent schools and home education, he said.Van der Merwe said Mayuri s achievement should serve as motivation for more academic diamonds to be discovered in the Northern Cape. It shows that the quality of education in the Northern Cape is reaping the fruits of success. It also proves that our pupils from Northern Cape doesn t need to back down or feel intimidated when they compete with the rest of the country, he said.Meanwhile, the partnership between the department and Greatness Gets Moving creatives is set to see Grade 10 and 11 pupils in Galeshewe sharpen their skills in the English language next week. Coordinator of the project, Galaletsang Motlhaudi, said the aim of the initiative was to develop and encourage pupils to do well in their subjects, especially in English at all grades.She said it was important for pupils to grasp the language at grass roots level so that when they are in higher learning institutions, they do not encounter difficulties. Although English may not be a primary language for pupils in high school, this is not the case in higher education institutions as most universities and colleges in South Africa use English as the primary medium of instruction, she said.Motlhaudi said her focus was on township schools and there would be a workshop next month where pupils would be exposed to a spelling programme, which initially started in February this year. Schools to be visited include Emang Mmogo, Tetlanyo, Thabane and Vuyolwethu high schools in Galeshewe, Northern Cape. I desired pupils in township-based high schools to also experience these benefits, as that is where the need is greater, Motlhaudi said. Pupils in Grade 8 and 9 have been writing tests fortnightly and participating in term competitions based on a list of words provided. As a means to test the acquired knowledge of the pupils, an annual competition among children from all four schools will be held, she said. The national department of basic education said they also have their own Spelling BEE competition in all phases across the country. The growth in the number of schools that enrolled for participation has grown tremendously, Elijah Mhlanga, spokesperson for the department, said.Tiisetso Manokotiisetsom@thenewage.co.za