THE much-anticipated R800m Mandela Children s Hospital will finally be launched this week, paving the way for its opening mid next year.The world class facility took two years of construction and massive donations from around the globe. Spokesperson of the Nelson Mandela Children s Trust, Lulu Herkt, said Friday s opening ceremony, which coincides with the day on which the former president died on December 5, 2013, will honour the struggle icon s legacy and vision.She thanked the people who contributed to Madiba s dream of providing free quality healthcare for all African children. Friday s launch is a celebration of his (Nelson Mandela s) legacy and vision.It is also a celebration of the people, not only those who have contributed money but also those who have invested their time into making Mandela s dream a reality, Herkt said. Also, we are celebrating all the children who used their savings money from their piggy banks and contributed to the project. Herkt said the inside and outside of the hospital, situated in Parktown in Johannesburg, is designed to make the children feel safe. The interior designs and the landscapes are specially designed for the children. The hospital has story walls and more than 2000 signs. There are also gardens for the children, she said. There are 10 family units with furniture. There is one in each ward. She said the hospital houses 200 beds and all children admitted to the hospital on referral will receive free healthcare. It is a referral hospital and the treatment for all children will be free. In that, we foresee about 80% of our patients will come from the public health sector, she said. The government will be providing part of the operating costs and the trust will also raise funds for the remaining costs. Herkt said they were now in the final phase of acquiring hospital staff and management and hope the hospital would open its doors for the public mid next year.&#8221;The construction of the hospital was completed in June this year. Since then we have been receiving equipment such as the MRT scans and MTE scans. So that phase is done and now we are in the process of acquiring management and staff, Herkt said. When we test all our systems, equipment, staff and protocols, we will be ready to have children admitted into the hospital. news@thenewage.co.zaLESLEY TSHAMANO&nbsp;