Orlando Pirates appear calm ahead of their return to Mbombela stadium, the scene of their 6-1 thrashing by SuperSport United earlier this month. That result, which equalled their worst defeat when they lost to Mamelodi Sundowns in 1990, is not being discussed by the players about to face SuperSport in the Telkom Knockout semifinal tomorrow.The defeat was so raumatic it led to the resignation of coach Muhsin Ertugral with the Buccaneers to revisit the scene of their nightmare under caretaker Augusto Palacios. Yet Bucs midfielder Mpho Makola didn t seem too concerned at the press conference held at the PSL offices in Johannesburg yesterday. We are not going to look at that 6-1 loss, Makola said. It is Mbombela stadium at the end of the day. We have had great games there before. We are not going to think too much about that now. We are just going to focus on the game on Saturday. We know you know have be ready for anything in football. Since that massacre, however, the Buccaneers have shown signs of recovery, responding emphatically as they went on to register three successive victories.Makola feels Palacios has changed the mood in the team and suggested the dressing room was now in a more positive frame of mind. The change room mood is different, everybody seems to be happy and ready to play, Makola said. The new coach has brought something to the team. We have a different coach, who does things very differently from Ertugal. Now it s all smiles. I m not saying there were no smiles back then, but the mood is certainly different now and it has been working for us and we have to continue with what we have been doing. While the previous result must weigh on the minds of the Bucs players, SuperSport captain Dean Furman insisted that they won t dwell on their past encounter. It s gone now and to think that the same result will happen again in tomorrow s game would be foolish. We have to be very focused on this match, Furman said. They are coming to the game on the back of three victories, they ve got terrific players who are in good form, so we have to be ready. In the other semifinal, in form Cape Town City will host struggling Free State Stars at Athlone stadium tomorrow.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza