Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba on Monday emphasised that the city will no longer be a safe haven for criminals.The City is sending a clear message that law enforcement in Joburg will relentlessly pursue drug dealers using intelligence at its disposal. At the same time the City will also put in place drug prevention and treatment programmes and work closely with communities through awareness and education.Speaking at the launch of the K9-Narcotics unit at the JMPD s Training Academy in Selby, Mayor Mashaba said drug abuse is a scourge with serious implications for community safety in the City. For years our City has been plagued by crime and drugs. Lives have been lost, families have been broken, communities torn apart and people left brokenhearted and hopeless, said Mashaba.Exec Mayor @HermanMashaba &amp; K9 Narcotics Unit officers say &#39;Criminal Run!&#39; #Joburgatwork ^NS pic.twitter.com/lfpmM6Uupu&mdash; City of Joburg (@CityofJoburgZA) November 21, 2016Mayor Mashaba also called on community stakeholders to get involved in eliminating the drug problem in our communities.He said: I made a promise to myself, I&#8217;d tackle the scourge of drugs. Today that promise becomes a reality. Lives have been lost and families left hopeless, I&#8217;ve had enough of how drugs affect the youth. On 30 May 2016, Mashaba promised that if elected Mayor he would create a specialised drug unit within the JMPD. Today that promise becomes a reality.The JMPD looked at the best performing officers with the highest level of integrity to fill this K9-Narcotics Unit. The unit will also be capacitated with high calibre firearms and high performance vehicles.Unemployment is increasing the epidemic of drug abuse and alcoholic addiction. In Alexandra, drug abuse cases rose from 56 in 2004 to 1042 in 2014.Research shows that drug users with low socio-economic status are susceptible to substance abuse as a way of coping and escaping the harsh realities emanating from unemployment and a poor background. While I realise that drug abuse cannot be reduced to a single factor, unemployment is a significant contributor, stated Mashaba.Mayor Mashaba noted that a focus on job creation and proactive anti-drug strategies would help our residents to realise their full potential. As government, we must create an enabling environment for businesses to flourish. In turn, they will make massive investments to create jobs and reduce the unemployment of over 800 000 of our residents, said Mashaba.According to the City of Johannesburg, the unit is currently dealing with 76 drug related activities, nyaope, rock and dagga, named among the popular drugs in Joburg.Dogs have been trained for crime fighting activities such as sniffing out drugs.The K9 narcoticsUnit according to @CityofJoburgZA will deal with explosives,counterfeit goods hijackings,robbery with a focus on narcotics pic.twitter.com/zWpkaZC6YR&mdash; Moses Moyo (@moses_moyo) November 21, 2016-TNA Reporter 