The day is drawing closer for four short-listed South Africans to be part of Elon Musk s one way ticket to Mars.Musk, the SpaceX founder and CEO, plans to build a powerful spaceship that will begin carrying 100 people at a time to the red planet in 2022 until it is populated with one million people. If all goes according to plan, the reusable ITS will help humanity establish a permanent, self-sustaining colony on the Red Planet within the next 50 to 100 years, Musk was quoted saying at the International Astronautical Congress in Guadalajara.South Africans have expressed interest in making the trip and The New Age caught up with some of those shortlisted to pioneer the project.The quartet of Divashen Govender, 24, Edwin le Grange, 23, Adrianna Marais, 33 and Alexandra Doyle, 30, are the local hopefuls.Durban-born Govender recently moved to Johannesburg and remains upbeat he will make the trip to Mars and is convinced he will go all the way. I applied because I knew if I didn t, I would regret it and I hate regrets, he said, adding that he has always had a passion for space travel. Next year we enter an exciting selection stage. I don t see myself getting kicked out soon, I ll do whatever it takes, he said.Le Grange shares the same passion with Govender and said he wants to explore the surface of Mars . Mars has the opportunity to inspire millions across the world. So if we have to give our lives to make that happen we would be selfish not to do that, Le Grange said.The remaining Mars hopefuls are aware of the dangers of embarking on that peculiar trip. They consider the project an opportunity of a lifetime . I m most excited about the adventure and the changes we can make, but I will miss my family and friends and, of course, I am going to miss eating meat, Le Grange said.A study done by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) shows that it would take about nine months to reach Mars. In the nine months it takes to get there, the planet moves a considerable distance around its orbit, about 3/8 of the way around the Sun. You have to plan ahead to make sure by the time you reach the distance of Mars orbit it is where you need it to be. This means that you can only begin your trip when Earth and Mars are properly lined up, the report read.But Space.com says Musk is building a spaceship that will make the trip in as little as 80 days initially, and eventually in just 30 days.The organisers of the trip, Mars One, are based in the Netherlands and have vowed to establish a permanent human colony in Mars by 2027.Co-founder and CEO of Mars One Bas Lansdorp announced the project in May 2012 and by 2013 a quarter of a million people had applied to be part of this programme.Mars One has already begun its training ahead of its planned launch in 2024, when and if all goes well, teams of successful candidates from around the world will form part of the first human colony on Mars.AVIWE MAXHEKEnews@thenewage.co.za