Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela explained his thinking behind fielding what looked like five defenders in their 2-1 defeat to Mamelodi Sundowns at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday.Komphela was also unhappy with Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane interpreting his line-up as an overly defensive formation before the kick-off.Komphela explained why he started with Ramahlwe Mphahlele, Eric Mathoho, Lorenzo Gordinho, Sibusiso Khumalo and Daniel Cordosso, while Willard Katsande played as a defensive midfielder together with Siphiwe Tshabalala and George Maluleka. Let me debunk the myth of five defenders, Komphela said. I ll never be aggressive, I ll try to be very rational. It is a seed that was planted by a man who was not supposed to be planting the seed, and an expert in our field (in reference to Mosimane). When you re playing, it s 3-4-3 with respect, you ve got three centre-backs and two wing-backs, which is a winger and a full-back in football terms. Who scored? Rama and what position was he? He is a defender, when he attacks he is higher up there. Mozambique against Bafana Bafana, the ball scored by Bradley Grobler, where did it come from? The same Rama . To you (the media) I have to explain, but to my colleague I would reprimand him, don t send a wrong message of thinking that it s five defenders . Komphela said in their Telkom Knockout defeat to Free State Stars in their last outing before Sundowns match, they used the same system. I m going to make another reference outside SA. You look at Chelsea, when they beat Everton 5-0 they were playing three centre-backs: 3-4-3 or 3-5-2 they got three on top there and they scored five goals. When we played Free State Stars, there was great energy and great chances. I don t know the number of chances we missed. Maybe a request to our colleagues: refrain from misinformation. Because sometimes they say things that are so misleading. Our responsibility is to lead not mislead. Coaches must interpret things properly. We played three centre-backs and we have wing backs on right and left. Only Katsande and George in the central midfield. It is highly offensive. Neville Khozanevillek@thenewage.co.za