The local government elections were a serious wake up call for the ANC. What measures were implemented to fix the problems?In the aftermath of the election, we analysed very, very sharply the causes for the decline.We said our duty is to analyse the subjective and objective realities our organisation faces.We have to understand that the objective of our opposition is to portray us as impotent and ineffective. None of these factors are true about the ANC except that the ANC had to look at why our constituency did not go vote.So you separate the public narrative from the reality on the ground. Certainly we had analysed that many had thought that ANC councillors and ANC leaders were arrogant, they were not being serviced by their councillors and leaders.In addition, the meddling with lists had a huge impact of people s trust with the ANC.The secretary-general speaks of a trust deficit with the ANC. We analysed that and said that what we needed to do was to go back to the people immediately and we did that.To begin, not to explain but to genuinely say that where we made mistakes we are sorry.Having done that exercise, we sent the NEC out to correct where things have been done incorrectly in terms of the selection of councillors. We are still in that process.We also decided to add another dimension. We said to our branches that you must begin to discuss what calibre of person should be leading the ANC using the Eye of the Needle (strategy and tactics document). The values that a person must have to be able to lead in the ANC. Not every person is the right person to be an NEC member. It is only those people who can pass through the Eye of the Needle.People who really understood the values of the organisation, understood that uniting the ANC is much more important than being a wedge driver, understood that to hold any position is less important than the ANC remaining in power for the purpose of advancing a national democratic revolution (NDR). So we go through all of that.The adding of the second dimension, is this a departure from normal practice when discussing leadership issues in the party?We have not done this since 1997, where we talk very directly to the calibre of people that must lead the ANC.There are ongoing accusations that the ANC stifles debate and discussion on leadership matters and elective conferences. Is this an accurate description of the status quo?No. It has to be within the organisation because we are talking about the leadership of the organisation. We are not talking about anyone else. We are talking about who should lead the ANC, fully cognizant of the fact that whoever leads the organisation will also lead society at large. The counter argument now is that there should be broader public participation in that. We haven t made that decision.Our decision is that the branches of the ANC should begin nominating people for the NEC. What we are asking these branches not to nominate on the basis of popularity but on the basis of merit so that they look at a person very differently. So that they use the Eye of the Needle as the compass.We are looking to say to them that we don t want slates and slate politics. We want them to discuss the future of the country and where the country is going, to take into account the National Development Plan (NDP).And then say eventually, they can start looking at names of people who they think are capable of leading the country in the right direction. We take into account the criticism of people who say that not everybody who is on the NEC currently are capable of making sober decisions because this may be a faction or factionalised as it were.The question we ask is can this process undo factionalism? We believe that given the fact that the response we received is very good, where people are saying let s talk. We want open discussions, we want to be able to criticise our leaders, we are saying fine, let them do so.The only way we are going to get to a point where people will accept and acknowledge that you do not have to select a person because they are the loudest speaker. You may select a very quiet person who is a thinker and also a doer.A person who can think and take action on what they believe must be done and do it properly. So we take them through the Eye of the Needle. We also take them through strategy and tactics so that there is an understanding of what is the trajectory of achieving a NDR and its goals.Given the deep rooted problems in the ANC, is it not a question of the horse having bolted? The temptation to resort to cheque book tactics has become common practice.I don t think so. This situation is more stated than real because if one looks at, let s take a community of people of 200000, it would not be correct to say that everyone in that community is undemocratic and a thief.What we are saying is that it is the honest hard working people of this country who belong to the ANC who must choose the leadership of the ANC.It might be people who we might not look at ordinarily. What we are accustomed to doing since 1997 is to look at popular faces and voices. People who appear on TV all the time, people who speak well, people who have a contra view on every issue and they become popular because of that contra view.The main issue that should drive us is the values of the ANC. We are also saying that going forward, the most critical areas that people will have to look at is the land question, education, the implementation of the NHI and growing the economy. We must ensure that we have capable people who can turn around the concept of local economic development and make it a reality and not just a lot of talk.People who have the theoretical base but are also pragmatic at the same time. Obviously we will also look for people who know the values of the ANC. So we are saying to our branches don t have a shallow debate but have a long and if you must, several long debates.Firstly, start off by saying what kind of leader we want and then once you have begun to look at what kind of leader, you can then look at leadership and start talking about individuals and feel free to criticise your leadership so that you may be able to look at people s strengths and comparative weaknesses as well. Don t only look at people through the lens of the media.Look at what people have achieved, what they haven t achieved. Don t only look at people who speak well but do nothing. The places I have been to are quite remarkable. I think going from 62.8% to 53%, that shock was real and that shock reverberated throughout the country.People are less inclined to make fun of the opposition but to look at the opposition very closely. While the EFF did not grow, people are saying that the threat to the NDR is the EFF with their racism and antagonism but having said all of that, the ANC has to implement its own resolutions. You can t have good resolutions on paper. You must have ANC resolutions implemented by an ANC led government.On the issue of resolutions, at the NGC, the Balance of Forces debate outlined the challenges and problems. However, after the NGC, the issues raised in the Balance of Forces document were not given the necessary attention. Why was that?To me it is a misstep between the ANC and the ANC led government. Let s take the land issue for instance. The NGC talks about rapidly implementing the redistribution of land. But the government has a programme which they pronounce and budget for in February before the NGC takes place. In the next budget, there isn t a conscious decision to accelerate land redistribution. It s business as usual.Surely the leadership deployed to the government must be held accountable?We also have to look at that. Remember you get your leadership of government from the leadership of the ANC. So that s why you need the best brains in the NEC. We must have the best brains. We must have a representation of the demography of our country, working class leadership, the business people, the middle class, people from various sectors must be represented, so you go back to the ANC being the Parliament of the people and do away with the slate that excludes all of these people.On the issue of slates, you are saying no slates.YesHow is the process going to be managed? You are saying that branches must come up with names eventually.Some of the proposals we are going to take to the policy conference for example, because we don t make policy as individuals, would have to be that the only nominations that really matters will be the ones from branches.What you then do is go back to the original state where you can even have a 700 strong ballot people as long as branch nominations are not undermined. What happens is that the branches nominate, then it goes to a filtering process with regions and provinces and that is where the distortions begin to happen.The experiences with the local government election lists created a trust deficit between branches and the leadership. How are you going to deal with this?Remember we can t change a nomination. The trust deficit has nothing to do with election of the national leadership because it is not subject to public debates.Surely, the trust deficit still applies in this situation where you have nominations going from branches to provinces, they are filtered which then creates an opportunity for manipulation?We are striving to create a situation where there are less filters.What would be the checks and balances against manipulation?Well, the Constitution of the ANC says that you must have a provincial list conference, which means that the conference will take into account 86 positions and they would order them and they have a provincial position.The reason why we are already calling for people to start discussing, is that provinces can also talk to each other about their preferences but also want to discuss with you the possibility of this comrade who has been with the ANC for many, many, years and who is a stalwart in the movement. Can we talk to you about that. That is the normal thrust and the workings of an ANC elective conference.What role does the policy conference play, if any, in this process?The policy conference does not discuss leadership matters. The policy conference discusses policy matters.That s why we separated the conferences. That s why we give a full six months between both conferences, so that we can pay attention to the policies of the ANC, assess which policies are effective, what needs to be tweaked and talk through those. I think that this conference is going to be mainly about the economy. That s my sense.At the time of the elective conference, will there be one list?Hopefully there will be one list of the top people in the country capable of running the next administration.Are you suggesting that there will be no contestation?We can t say there will be no contestation. It will be open. There are 86 positions to fill. There might be 700 nominations. Delegates will vote according to their mandate for those 86 positions.What measures are being put in place to combat the buying of nominations, votes, etc?What we said to people is that where it is detected, those people must be exposed publicly and also we hope that immediate disciplinary action will be taken like a DC set up because that is what is distorting the ANC s ability to get the best out of this country and the ANC. What must not happen is that a person must have bought himself into a position on the NEC.The 101 group of stalwarts and veterans have blamed the current leadership for the crisis in the party and have called for a consultative conference. Is there any merit to their concerns?With the current disparity, I think the debate is healthy. Those who call themselves veterans or stalwarts are not raising things we don t know. We are going to listen to them.They will be surprised that there won t be antagonism. We are not going to have antagonistic debates. What we want is to hear if they will analyse the current situation as we have done and add to it, whether we can t work out a joint strategy to come out of the current situation we find ourselves in.They call it a crisis, we have an understanding from our regions and some provinces. The analysis there is that among some of the veterans, there is clearly a bid for them to be re-elected to the NEC. So they have to become more publicly seen, some have been forgotten, some have not been known. But they must allow the branches to make the decision.In terms of organisational discipline, some of the stalwarts and veterans public utterances borders on promoting factionalism and goes against the process of rebuilding. Do you agree?I want to be cautious that we as the national leadership are not going to be seen behaving in the same way that some of them are behaving. That is very critical for us. We are not willing to behave in the same manner that some people have behaved as if the organisation is not a conduit to bring their issues to, but have seen the media as the conduit.The ANC is a legitimate organisation, it has legitimate structures, it has legitimate leadership. People were elected at conferences at various levels. You can t just on one day decide you don t want this leadership but you are not willing to engage in the normal structures of the organisation and you call that administrative.What we want to hear is whether they are analysing the situation in the same way we have and have gone into the depth of the problems as we have done. We can share if they are willing to share.If you look at the veterans, many of them were involved in the Polokwane conference, many quit positions in the government, many were quite angry, many of them are the same people who are today calling for the current leadership to step down. Do they have the right to criticise the current leadership?There is a view that I am the only one that can and must lead. That s a narrow view. Let s go and hear them in the organisation.Regarding your question, there is that analysis which I regard as rather pedestrian, that they fighting because they could not make it in Polokwane. They have been out for 10 years. Ten years is a long time to still be angry.Maybe they had unfinished business?Well, I don t know. I can t make that judgment publicly. We want to hear from them and hope that they will be open and honest with us.There might be among them people that might have that type of honesty which you will find in comrades who are long standing members of the ANC. I think that is being cynical in my own view. Let s hear. I have looked at all their utterances, a lot of it is very damning.However, it is not solutions orientated. It is more like bashing people.The fixation with the president That I believe is an unfortunate reality. They haven t shown that they analysed the problems collectively as we see them.They looked at one individual and given that individual all the blame. To some in the movement, this suggests that they might be a bit bitter about Polokwane and the time has come to seek a change forgetting that President Zuma cannot stand for another term as the country s president. Our Constitution does not allow it. It seems to be their fear but it is such an unfounded fear because the Constitution is very clear.What is the state of the relationship with the ANC s alliance partners and how is this perceived on the ground?It is improving There are complaints about some individuals who are creating problems. However, on the whole, people are talking very positively. For instance, the Red October campaign, about working together with Cosatu and Sanco.The issue of the deployment of those comrades in councils did arise and people did say that the manner in which the ANC structures closed out the alliance must be corrected. Obviously, I can assure you that the ANC won t be closing out its alliance partners.Both Blade Nzimande and Solly Mapaila have said publicly that the SACP is considering going it alone. What s the ANC s reaction?It hasn t really been raised on the ground. There has been concerns in the Eastern Cape, in Limpopo to some extent. That is an SACP resolution that they are putting out. Naturally, if the SACP is going to do that I am sure they will discuss it with the ANC.Will it not escalate the tensions as we have witnessed in KZN?No. We must also look realistically at what causes tensions. About 90% of the time tensions are caused by tender issues, even in the alliance and therefore the ANC has to lead itself out of this notion that being in the leadership means being close to resources. It cannot be our reality. We must put competent leaders in place. We must not expect those leaders to give us anything after we have elected them.We don t want leaders who are beholden to anybody. There must be no one who says you owe me . That is our biggest concern. The you owe me bit must come to an end.As part of the rebuilding process, the marginalisation of Indian, Coloured and White communities has often cropped up. How does the ANC plan to address this issue?We are saying very deliberately that the ANC is a non-racial organisation and one of the things we are saying to our branches is that no branch in the country can have a BEC that is made up of a single entity.We have to go out of our way to make sure that there is inclusion of every single demographic perspective the country has and the ANC s characteristic of being the Parliament of people has to resonance at branch, subregion, regional, provincial and national level.-Ricky Naidoo