A storm is brewing within Numsa over the finances of the union and allegations levelled against its national leadership for purging dissenting union leaders.The New Age was reliably informed by sources within Numsa s Jack Charles Bezuidenhout region (JC BEZ), which includes six structures, including Johannesburg, is revolting against the union s national leadership ahead of its national congress next month.A local union leader within Numsa s JC BEZ region who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Numsa s national leadership has kept a veil of secrecy over the state of the union s R12m strike compensation fund. The members yesterday stormed the union s regional office in Johannesburg to lay bare their grievances. The challenges faced by Numsa started when the national office bearers tabled a national financial report that was not audited. The JC BEZ region then asked for an independent forensic audit, the leader said. This was requested in the central committee and the general secretary (Irvin Jim) started to call people names like enemies and agents of the ANC. This led to the suspensions of local office bearers from different regions. The local union leader attacked Jim s dictatorship ahead of the union s national congress scheduled for December 12-16. Numsa s constitution is no longer being followed by the leadership. Jim said he would deal with those who don t respect the views from national office, the leader said.Another union official declined to comment on the accusations against Numsa national leadership for fear of reprisal It s a very sensitive matter, the official said. A Numsa shop steward said that the union s JC BEZ region, which was put under administration by the union s central committee has yet to convene its regional congress ahead of the union s national congress. The central committee delegated a task team to monitor the delegation of shop stewards that will be attending the national congress. We are in a crisis because of the personal interests of the leadership, he said.Numsa deputy general-secretary Karl Cloete said the concerns raised by the union s members were unwarranted. It s got nothing to do with the congress, he said.Numsa national spokesperson Patrick Craven said he would look into the matter before commenting publicly. I ll look into it, I can t comment until I know what s going on, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za