High youth unemployment and the tertiary education funding crisis are receiving the attention of the government, President Jacob Zuma told a sitting of the National Council of Provinces (NCOP) in East London on Friday.He said the government has offered billions to the manufacturing sector in a bid to stimulate employment and attract investments.Zuma said funding for tertiary education is also getting a R9bn boost over the next three years.He said the government has heard the cries of students protesting for free education and has expanded the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) to cater for more students. We reiterate that we all support the call to make education accessible to the poor, which is why we will continue to expand access for the poor through the NSFAS. The scheme supports close to 500 students at university and TVET colleges. This year alone, NSFAS has disbursed loans and bursaries to the tune R14bn. The government will also provide an additional R9bn for NSFAS over the period ahead, raising its funding by more than 18% a year to universities over the next three years, Zuma said.He said the government was working with business and labour to solve the unemployment crisis that continues to plague students after tertiary education. Beyond higher education, we are acutely aware of the challenges particularly of unemployment among our youth. Our university graduates sit on street corners and road pavements, crying out for something to do, anything. Right here in the Eastern Cape, the government has, through the department of trade and industry, made possible about R23bn private sector investment through various incentive programmes that has supported more than 33000 jobs. More than R9bn of the investment was made available through the Automotive Incentive Scheme that supported investment from Mercedes-Benz SA, Volkswagen South Africa, Goodyear South Africa and FAW Vehicle Manufacturer. Last week, the Trade and Industry Minister Dr Rob Davies and the Eastern Cape government launched the Komani Industrial Park revitalisation project in Queenstown. This is the fourth industrial park to be launched this year. To date, the four launched parks combined employ almost 40000 people. He reiterated that the government was seeking solutions to the tertiary education funding crisis. As we speak there is a commission of inquiry into how this problem can be solved. We urge civil organisations and student movements to work with the commission and contribute ideas to the commission for the sake of the nation. provinces@thenewage.co.za