Gauteng police are looking for seven armed men who kidnapped three children from the TLC children s home in Eikenhof, south of Johannesburg.Police spokesperson Kay Makhubela said the men posed as paramedics and gained access to the orphanage. They kidnapped three boys and took them to the Jacksonville squatter camp where they beat the boys up while demanding to know where the home kept its money.Makhubela said paramedics had received a call about a woman in labour at the orphanage and on their way there, were hijacked and robbed at gunpoint. The suspects also stripped paramedics of their uniforms, handcuffed them and put them in the back of the ambulance. They went to the children s home and also held the security guard at gunpoint, Makhubela said.The security guard at TLC Children s Home allowed the men onto the premises under the impression that they were medical personnel and there had been an emergency at the home.This is the fourth time this year the orphanage has been robbed.It has been reported that Mondeor police officers rushed to the squatter camp where the gunmen shot at them.The suspects then fled, leaving the children and the ambulance behind. The ambulance driver later took the traumatised boys back to the home.Thea Jarvis from TLC Ministries said the boys were interrogated for information around safes and money at the home. The boys are now home safely but are injured. In the first incident earlier this week, I was hurt, Jarvis said.South Africans have come forward to help the orphanage.Whackhead (Darren) Simpson of 947 Breakfast Xpress has pledged to help get the security at the home up to speed.Some of the people said they will donate nappies and toys. On Facebook, Sabine Dedering said her son who had been saving for an iPad, wants to donate R1000 from his savings. My daughter (she hasn t saved that much yet), wants to give you R500. My thoughts go out to your boys that were beaten. No one should have to endure such trauma. My heart is sore, she said.Jarvis said R17000 had been stolen. We also need volunteers. We need Nan formula, nappies, nonperishable food, medical supplies and the boys phones and shoes were stolen. The orphanage has placed over 800 babies in loving homes since TLC began with 19 of the children being adopted by TLC founder, Jarvis.Nondumiso Zwanenondumisoz@thenewage.co.za