Schools and hospitals are supposed to be protected silent zones but negligent motorists disturb the peace with needless hooting.This worrying trend suggests there is no legislation to regulate taxi drivers hooting to draw the attention of potential customers and motorists using their horns to express their frustration and anger with other drivers.Far from it. There are laws that prohibit unnecessary hooting in just about every metro that are not enforced in the hustle and bustle of big city life.In fact, the learners licence textbook makes it clear that drivers can only hoot in emergency situations. Only hoot in emergency situations and make sure that your hooter can be heard from at least 90m away. The hooter pitch may not vary, it reads.However, the city of Johannesburg does not have clear by-laws available on its site regarding honking in public spaces or around private spaces, which is unfortunate in one of the busiest and most congested cities in the country.The metered taxi, minibus and bus by-laws do not mention noise related to hooting around schools and neighbourhoods.A local school teacher, Zinhle Khumalo, said hooting and playing loud music was quite disruptive at her school. In the mornings, kids use transport such as taxis and they like to hoot and play loud music. This is unacceptable and the school is a silent zone that has zero tolerance for this because it disrupts the learning environment. I personally only make use of hooting when I want to alert another driver, hooting excessively is unacceptable, she said.In other parts of the world hooting is virtually unheard of.A Zimbabwean, Fortune Ruzvidzo, said it was an offence to hoot in her country of residence, Australia. It s quite rare to hear anyone hoot because people only do it to alert the next person of impending danger. In fact, if you do it unnecessarily you pay a fine of $66 (R700), Ruzvidzo said.In the city of Cape Town, noise management is strictly controlled in the city s by-laws, even to the extent of defining noise levels in decibels.The city of Cape Town has an environmental health section and has implemented a noise control programme to regulate, measure and manage disturbing noise that occurs or has the potential to occur in all residential, commercial and industrial areas of the city.It even has a clear definition for noise and its impact on health in detail. In spite of that, violating a by-law will only get one fined. No driver, person in control of a motor vehicle or passenger in the motor vehicle shall permit any amplified noise to emanate from the motor vehicle such that it is audible at a distance of more than 50 metres, it states in its by-laws.A Johannesburg motorist, Morena Lekitoa, 26, has admitted to abusing the bleep . I try to hoot only when I need to but I am guilty of hooting in residential areas. Hooting is a great concern in Johannesburg as I have witnessed accidents because of hooting, Lekitoa said.Canny Maphanganews@thenewage.co.za