Low cost carrier FlySafair has reiterated its offer to purchase Mango Airlines after the South African Airways-owned carrier posted a net loss of R36.9m for the year ended March, despite indications that it enjoyed financial subsidies from the state-funded entity.This was despite the Airports Company of South Africa (Acsa) noting a trend towards an increase in domestic passenger traffic, which FlySafair has seen across its route network.Elmar Conradie, FlySafair CEO, said the carrier would buy Mango Airlines from the government at the right price. Mango s fleet and operating model is closer to FlySafair s low-cost approach, and would be a more natural extension to our successful business model, he said. Operating a larger fleet would afford us the opportunity to enjoy even larger economies of scale and through this, sustain lower fares to the flying public. Mango s loss comes even though it has been accused of engaging in predatory pricing as it sub-leases aircraft from its parent company, SAA, at discounted prices, allowing it to price flights at below operational costs.SAA is under serious financial pressure, after reporting a loss of R5.6bn in two years and failing to secure another bailout from the national Treasury. We are well positioned to meet the increasing demand in domestic travel that has been reported by Acsa, Kirby Gordon, head of sales and distribution at FlySafair, said. We are achieving a pleasingly low operating cost per seat, which is allowing us to contest the market at the current low fares. He said that Mango, despite alleged subsidisation, is not managing the same sort of efficiency. We see potential to make a difference in this regard, which is why we would be happy to purchase the airline at the right price. Gordon said this would also take some financial burden off the government . The issue of subsidisation is also contentious as Mango is mandated to contest the market on a fair-competitive basis hence the DA s request for an inquiry. FlySafair said since take-off two years ago, average fares on routes it operates on are up to 39% cheaper than they were five years ago, with fares starting from as low as R499.The airline said it accounts for 27% of the weekly seat capacity among the country s three low-cost carriers and operates the largest domestic route network among the three.Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za