A person often meets his destiny on the road he took to avoid, French poet Jean de La Fontaine once wrote.For days Shakes Mashaba has avoided a Safa disciplinary hearing, but the Bafana Bafana coach will soon learn that his fate lies in the consequences of his actions.Mashaba is set to appear before the Safa disciplinary hearing tomorrow to face several charges, including displaying disrespectful behaviour towards his bosses.Mashaba has gone to ground since that fateful day in Polokwane when he allegedly pointed a condemning finger at Safa president Danny Jordaan in a blatant act of disrespect caught on camera.Safa has said Mashaba will answer for the regrettable incident which took place after Bafana Bafana s World Cup qualifier match against Senegal at Peter Mokaba Stadium two weeks ago.And, according to sources at the football association, Mashaba s position has become untenable and he is likely to walk the plank before the end of the week.Mashaba is also being hauled over the coals for his treatment of players, particularly those based overseas.The irascible Mashaba has apparently taken issue with certain players who have been critical of his management methods.And as the noose tightens around his neck, Mashaba has enjoyed less and less support from his players.But team captain Thulani Hlatshwayo said the outcome of the hearing would not have a negative effect on the team.Bafana will resume their World Cup qualification campaign in August and much could change in the team before then.Hlatswayo, who led Bafana to the famous 2-1 victory over Senegal, said they will have to remain professional and focus on the job at hand. We have to be professionals because football is a business and we have to take care of our own business, Hlatswayo said. They did mention that it is an internal process. We didn t get a chance to speak to the coach because when we flew to Mozambique he didn t travel with us. We just have to wait to see what happens. As players we know how important it is to continue winning matches for the team because we know what it does for the Fifa rankings. We have to make sure we remain focused. Bafana are joint log leaders with Burkina Faso, both on four points after two matches.Hlatswayo said they were pleased with where they are although he did admit that they could have done better. We are happy about the performance so far, although we made mistakes here and there. Had we rectified those mistakes, we would have been sitting comfortably in first position. Bafana will next play Cape Verde away in August next year. KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA AND NEVILLE KHOZA kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za