Institutions and individuals conning employers with fake qualifications are in for a shock as the South African Qualifications Authority (Saqa) is hoping to name and shame them.Saqa has established a misrepresented qualifications list which will be made public once the National Qualifications Framework (NQF) Bill has been passed.Employers would then be given a chance to check the qualifications from the list when employing job seekers and if one is found to have a fraudulent qualification the case would be forwarded to the police for prosecution.Saqa CEO Joe Samuels said in the 2015-16 financial year the institution had verified 72543 national and 23622 foreign qualifications, of which 92 national and 111 foreign qualifications were found to be invalid.Last week the South African Council of Educators (Sace) revealed it had detected more than 20 cases of teachers teaching with fraudulent qualifications.One of the teachers caught out had taught for more than 20 years at a Limpopo school while 25 teachers were bust in Ekurhuleni.Sace said it would be going to schools and verifying qualifications.Samuels said they picked up misrepresented qualifications during the verification process routinely . We then pass the information on to the people who request the verification. We place these names on the list of misrepresented qualifications. We also send them to the police for investigation, he said.He said Saqa had been working with the media creating public awareness. All national and provincial government departments are obliged to verify the qualifications of prospective employees prior to employing them. Many of the other government agencies, state-owned enterprises and local municipalities are also now following suit. We have established a list of misrepresented qualifications, he said.Samuels said Minister of Higher Education and Training Dr Blade Nzimande had published the NQF Amendment Bill for public comment. The bill would strengthen the NQF legislation to deal more effectively with the fraudulent qualifications problem. Institutions are also required to inform Saqa. Once the bill has been passed, Saqa will publish the list of misrepresented qualifications and fraudulent qualifications. We believe the strengthened legislation will deter people and institutions from continuing with these practices, Samuels said.Batandwa Malingonews@thenewage.co.za