South Africa s dire shortage of affordable drug rehabilitation centres has led to a large number of fly-by-night facilities popping up.They exploit desperate parents who can t afford costly private substance dependency treatment centres that charge anything between R40000 and R60000 for a six-month programme. Some of the unregistered facilities charge as little as R6000.A local NGO, Asilweni Cleaning Streets, is on the verge of rescuing about 50 people who are holed up in an unregistered rehabilitation centre in Brits, North West province. This man collects drug addicts and sex workers and puts them there under the pretext that he will rehabilitate them, but all he does is exploit them. There are allegations that he sleeps with some of the ladies. We have two ladies who escaped and came to us. We are looking to rescue about 30 to 50 with the help of the police. This is being done on a farm and no one sees what happens inside, Asilweni founder Cheryln Shabangu said.Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini confirmed the existence of unregistered facilities. An audit will be undertaken to provide the government with accurate information about both registered and unregistered substance dependency treatment facilities, as well as to make recommendations to the facilities on meeting the required norms and standards and/or register. The audit also aims to ascertain the accessibility of treatment centres in order to guide planning for the establishment of centres around the country, Dlamini said.South Africa has eight public inpatient treatment centres with three located in the Western Cape and two in KwaZulu-Natal. Mpumalanga, Gauteng and Limpopo have one each.The Gauteng MEC for social development s spokesperson, Mbangwa Xaba, said: In terms of the act, no person may manage a private halfway house or other places maintained mainly for the accommodation of persons except a halfway house maintained by the state, unless such halfway house or place is registered in terms of this act. Anti-Drug Forum SA president Sam Pillay said in the area he lived in Durban there were six bogus centres. He called on the department to visit the centres to assess them in order to ensure they were compliant.He says the mushrooming of the centres is because of the department s slow and stringent registration process. A lot of people applied and, for some reason, the department is slow to do registration and the norms and standards are pretty stringent so people don t qualify. But some shouldn t be shut unless it s those where you have 15 or 20 people cramped in a room. They have no treatment plan and do more damage to people, Pillay said.Last year, 4 285 patients were admitted to 17 treatment centres with 38% of those hooked on cannabis. Seventy four percent were young people under the age of 20. Many people in treatment are said to be Grade 8 to 12 pupils.Mbangwa said 382 223 beneficiaries in Gauteng were reached through substance abuse prevention programmes by funded non-profit organisations and 55 216 by the government.The Ke-Moja coaches deployed in schools and communities to roll out the Ke Moja drug prevention programme reached 406 511 children and 112 680 youth during the quarter under review. In reducing the harm caused by substance abuse, the department funded 34 outpatient treatment centres that were accessed by 17036 beneficiaries and 10 in-patient treatment centres accessed by 1 334 beneficiaries. One government treatment centre was accessed by 1 881 beneficiaries and a further 4 764 beneficiaries that completed treatment programmes are participating in aftercare programmes, Mbangwa said.Mthokozisi Dubemtokozisid@thenewage.co.za