It may be mind games but Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane is convinced that Kaizer Chiefs are in a far better space than the league champions ahead of their clash on Saturday.Sundowns, who are second from bottom with four points from three matches, welcome third placed Chiefs to Loftus Versfeld for an afternoon kick-off at 3pm.Mosimane reckons his team s losses to SuperSport United in the Telkom Knockout and Cape TownCity in the league have knocked his side s confidence.Steve Komphela s Chiefs have won four of their eight league matches this season, losing once and drawing on three occasions.That leaves them with 15 points, 11 more than Mosimane s Brazilians who have played only a few fixtures due to their CAF Champions League commitments.Chiefs defence has been solid this season and this is one of the reasons why Mosimane believes his side will have to dig deep to upset Amakhosi. They are in a better space. They won five games in a row before they drew with Pirates. We lost to Wits in the MTN 8 final, to Cape Town City and SuperSport United.So, emotionally, they are better than us, Mosimane said. But you have to understand that the programme is not the same. They are well-rested, they did not have the Champions League.They were eliminated too early. They had a pre-season and they worked on combinations.Which combinations have we worked on? We are just going with the same team. For us it s a carry over from last season. Mosimane has also blamed the team s slow start to the season on his players not adapting quickly to his playing style.The former Bafana Bafana coach has been trying to refresh the team that won the CAF Champions League by playing players who did not take part, such as Yannick Zakri, Sibusiso Vilakazi and Thapelo Morena.On the other hand, Mosimane feels that Chiefs new signings such as Mitchell Katsvairo, former Sundowns captain Ramahlwe Mphahlele and Keagan Buchanan have settled. You can t incorporate Zakri into the programme. Morena struggles. That s the challenge we have. Vila is struggling to get to the way we play. Lucky has the quality but he is creeping in slowly. The players we bought are the ones who are suffering because we did not have a preseason. But they are doing better. Mmasekepe Matsebanemmasekepem@thenewage.co.za