The ANC Youth League yesterday ruled out dissent with President Jacob Zuma as the reason for its decision to disband its Eastern Cape provincial structure.Briefing journalists in Johannesburg on the outcomes of the league s national working committee meeting, ANCYL president Collen Maine said although he would not shed light on the national executive committee s decision to dissolve the provincial structure, he denied that the region s vocal disapproval of the president was the reason. We are not going to tell the media the political reasons why we decided to dissolve the Eastern Cape. However, supporting or not supporting Zuma is not one of the reasons in that particular decision, he said.Maine also said that the ANCYL would come down hard on its KwaZulu-Natal provincial executive committee over comments he said related to the ANC s succession debate. We will be very harsh on the KZN provincial executive council for speaking about succession, he said. Maine also said the league found it worrisome that former president Thabo Mbeki s letter to Zuma, urging him to lend his ear to ANC veterans expressing concerns over the crisis trajectory of the ANC, was leaked to the media. Our only problem with the Thabo Mbeki letter is its circulation on Facebook and everywhere, he said.Maine s comments come against the background of the leagues provincial structure lodging an appeal to the office of secretary-general Gwede Mantashe. ANCYL national spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize said that the league set up a provincial task team set to guide the province to its provincial congress. The ANCYL through the national working committee as mandated by the national executive committee of the ANCYL has appointed the provincial task team of the Eastern Cape. The task team has lucid time-frames on when to take the province to its provincial congress, he said.Former ANCYL provincial secretary Butsha Lali recently lamented the lack of response from the ANC on the province s bid to be reinstated to the ANCYL. ANC branches in Johannesburg also found themselves in hot water for leading an #OccupyLuthuliHouse campaign, calling for the resignation of Zuma. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za