The competitive nature of the environment at Mamelodi Sundowns demands that players be versatile and that is exactly what the club s new Dani Alves Thapelo Morena is all about. Brought from Bloemfontein Celtic as a winger, Morena was never going to find it easy to despose right wings such as Keagan Dolly, Khama Billiat or Percy Tau of their places in the team.But coach Pitso Mosimane tried the former Celtic star at right back while trying to refresh his team and the decision has paid dividends. For Morena, the process was not too hard to adjust to as he started off at right back at his former club. His five-star showing against Kaizer Chiefs, where he kept players such as Lewis Macha and George Maluleka in his pocket, while also having the steam to go forward, either starting attacks or whipping in delightful crosses, caught the eye.While many may complain about change of positions, Morena is happy to be on the field in the star-studded team and said he has already been compared to the likes of Juventus and Brazil ace Alves. I have heard the guys in training call me Dani Alves. The fans too have been saying that and for me it only means I am on the right track. The transformation has not been that big because I used to play right back at Celtic. It is nothing new, Morena said. What is different now is that I have to push further up and exploit the spaces of opposition teams. I have to be clever and quick enough to join in our attack. I am happy to play anywhere. You do not join Africa s CAF champions and then decide to be picky about where you want to play. If you do that, you will grow grey hair on the bench, he said. This is not the first time that Mosimane has successfully managed to convert one of his players to critical acclaim. Sundowns other right back Asavela Mbekile joined the club as a central midfielder, but Mosimane successfully converted the hard working former Moroka Swallows man.Mzikayise Mashaba joined as a left wing and was converted to play as a left back and later as a central midfielder Both players have featured in the national team in their new positions and Morena is hoping for the same fortune. I saw what the coach did with Mbekile and Mashaba, and now I hope it is my turn. It is encouraging. They are now with Bafana. This opens up a space for me at both right back and right wing, depending on what system is played. Morena will hope to get another run when the African and South African champions host Golden Arrows at Loftus Versfeld tomorrow at 7.30pm.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane