Bafana Bafana arrived to a great reception in Polokwane yesterday, conducive for a much-needed win in their vital World Cup qualifier against Senegal this weekend. The 40-man Senegal delegation also landed in Johannesburg a strong contingent which included notable players such as European-based Sadio Mane, Mame Biram Diouf, Idrissa Gueye and Moumhamed Diame.Although this is only the second round of the qualifiers, there a lot riding on this fixture for Shakes Mashaba and his men. The Teranga Lions lead the pack with three points in group D and victory away on Saturday would further stretch their lead while leaving a huge dent in South Africa s hopes of qualifying for the 2018 finals in Russia.Mashaba has made some notable changes, as many as eight to the squad that drew 1-1 with Burkina Faso in Ouagadougou last month. In his latest selection is uncapped Lars Veldwijk, who arrived for the first time from Belgium yesterday. Of concern, however, could be that none of the foreign-based players Ayanda Patosi, May Mahlangu, Thulani Serero and Veldwijk were in action at the weekend and could be rusty.Veldwijk, born and raised in the Netherlands, could well be the man to solve the goal-scoring difficulties for Mashaba, a malaise which has continued to undermine Bafana s effort to qualify for major tournaments. Failure to chalk up victory against the Terenga Lions will leave SA with the huge task of turning things around the when they return to action next year. A win is crucial because it will see us at the top of the group and everything will be in our hands going forward, Mashaba said. The challenge with losing points is that you need to play catch up &#8230; and before you know it, the qualifiers are finished. So it is important we wrestle with the question of leadership now so that we are in a commanding place into the halfway stage next year. Mashaba was the first Bafana coach to face Senegal back in 2002 and has since met them on three occasions. His record reads drawn one, lost one and one victory. Bafana will have two training sessions at the Old Peter Mokaba stadium today.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha