The perception exists that as soon as a precocious talent appears on the scene, Mamelodi Sundowns owner Patrice Motsepe is the first to pounce like a crow lured by a sparkling object.When Lucky Mohomi showed great promise at Free State Stars, Sundowns moved swiftly to sign the midfielder in the off season.It seems Motsepe is naturally attracted to talent reared in the township that bears the name of his club, as was the case with Mohomi.Before this signing, the billionaire acquired the services of midfielder Koketso Mmotong from Platinum Stars.Rumour has it that Motsepe also heavily courted former Free State Stars and Orlando Pirates attacking midfielder Thulasizwe Mbuyane but never succeeded in bringing him to Chloorkop.Then it was supposedly the turn of Kaizer Chiefs midfielder George Lebese to turn the mining tycoon down. The 27 year old, also from Mamelodi, is rumoured to still be in the Downs owner s sights and it is speculated he has been in contact with the team he supported as a youngster.Having missed out on Mbuyane and Lebese, Sundowns were loathe to let yet another home grown prospect elude them. When Mohomi showed promise at Ea Lla Koto, coach Pitso Mosimane moved swiftly to sign the midfielder, nicknamed Fabregas .Mamelodi was jubilant and the player receives a rapturous reception each time he comes off the bench for the Brazilians.The capture of Mohomi fitted right into Motsepe s playbook and the yellow and blue support base took to one of their own, cheering him with the gusto that for years was reserved only for fan favourite Teko Modise.When Sundowns defeated Zamalek 3-0 in the CAF Champions League final s first leg at a packed Lucas Moripe Stadium, Mohomi came on to an electrifying welcome that even surprised him. I feel honoured to be shown this love and support by the people of Mamelodi. It makes me feel at home. To realise that people believe in me forces me to put a smile on their face. I hear their chants and roars. The support in Mamelodi confirms their happiness at their son returning home. It is for the support that they give me that I want to help achieve even more than what the team achieved last season. We have to go all out for the remaining trophies. I think I am only the second player from Mamelodi to win a Champions League medal. To do that for my generation is a big deal but there is still a lot left to achieve. Mmasekepe Matsebane mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za