With everyone starting on a clean slate at Banyana Banyana under interim coach Desiree Ellis, goalkeeper Andile Dlamini hopes that this will be an opportunity for her to start playing regularly for the national team. Dlamini has struggled to take the No 1 jersey from Roxanne Barker in the past but with Ellis now in charge of Banyana, she is confident she will be given a chance to show her true mettle.In the absence of Barker, Dlamini was between the poles when Banyana defeated Egypt 3-1 and Zimbabwe 3-0 in international friendly games recently. Those friendlies were part of the team s preparations for the Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) starting in Cameroon on Saturday. And Dlamini hopes to be featured when the tournament kicks off. Honestly, I still have to work hard, she said. It hasn t been easy fighting for the No 1 position because third-choice goalkeeper Yolula Tsawe has also been pushing me hard. But it will mean the world to me if I were to start playing regularly. Roxanne Barker gave me belief that I will start playing soon. She always pushes me to exert myself at every training session and we support each other. It gives you confidence knowing that everyone is going to get a chance to play. It gives you confidence that you might start playing. Having kept a clean sheet against Zimbabwe, a team they will be facing again on Saturday when their Afcon campaign begins, the Mamelodi Sundowns keeper said she had built up her confidence and was ready for action. Zimbabwe are a tough team and playing them at their home ground and not conceding a goal should boost our confidence, Dlamini said. I told myself that with this result, it must give me confidence going forward. It wasn t my effort that mattered but we played as a team and the clean sheet came from the unity we had. But Dlamini knows that there is a difference between friendlies and the highly competitive matches they will be playing during the continental tournament, which South Africa will look to win for the first time in their history. I feel they did not give all their cards out when we played them, she said. I feel like it will all be a different ball game in the tournament. Banyana have been drawn with hosts Cameroon, Zimbabwe and Egypt in Group A.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza