South Africa is a deeply divided society. If you are white you are significantly more likely to achieve success academically and in business than if you are black.It is shocking that even though whites make up a mere 9% of the population, every year there are as many white university graduates as there are black.Recent statistics compiled by Analytico, a data and earnings analytic consultancy, also demonstrated that there is a huge gulf in average earnings between whites and blacks. For example, white male professionals earn a median salary of R30453 a month. In stark contrast, black male professionals earn a median salary of just R9244 a month.These huge disparities between whites and blacks are a hangover from apartheid. While apartheid was a deliberate, systemic and evil segregation of races, the current divisions are mostly the result of inaction and a lack of access to education and opportunities.We spend 6% of our GDP on education, more than any other African country. Yet class sizes can often exceed 100 students, with more than 2 million South Africans having had no schooling whatsoever and the pass rate for matric woefully low.How can we accept that less than half of the seven year olds that enrolled in Grade 1 in 2002 went on to pass matric 11 years later? How can we accept that 78% of public schools do not even have a library? How can we accept that in post-apartheid South Africa, a white student is six times more likely to go to university than a black student?Clearly, South Africa s public schools are in crisis, are failing to equip blacks with the skills they need to thrive and are thereby perpetuating a system of economic apartheid.On July 28 a CEO Sleep Out on Nelson Mandela Bridge was disrupted by angry and violent protests by students (so bad that the police used rubber bullets to disperse the crowd). The purpose of the event was to raise money for education, which is not a long lasting solution.Our education system needs radical reform. Despite the fact that South Africa spends significantly more on education than any other sub-Saharan African country, our education system performs poorly, even compared to our neighbours.According to the World Economic Forum s 2015-16 competitiveness rankings, South Africa is the worst performing country in the world regarding the quality of math and science education.South Africa is ranked bottom of 140 countries, far behind some of the poorest countries in the world, including Malawi, Sierra Leone and Mali.Education is the greatest liberating tool of all. It makes workers employable, it is empowering and provides individual freedom, it provides a brighter future both economically and socially, and it lessens the likelihood of delinquent behaviour.South Africa needs an economy and a country that is inclusive for all, not exclusive. Big business and its vested interests create subtle, but significant blocks to prevent the masses participating in its exclusive world. Education is one of the key tools to break up this cosy club.Even more importantly, a good education is a fundamental human right.A successful education system is one of many steps required to end economic apartheid. It will also ensure South Africa fulfils both its moral obligation to educate its people properly and also give its citizens every chance of succeeding, no matter whether they are black or white.Kevin HumphreyKevin Humphrey is associate executive editor of The New Age.