One cannot visit any of South Africa s townships, villages or cities and not find a person, young or old, who does not have an opinion regarding Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane.There are those who appreciate the Sundowns coach s passion, drive and competitiveness.Then there are those who feel Mosimane is a sore loser, an emotional human being who at times refuses to keep his mouth shut, something that lands him in trouble with the Absa Premiership now and then.A visit to his majestic Houghton, Johannesburg house shows a different side to Mosimane, who is nested on his huge blue couch, facing one of his many big screen TVs that his wife Moira has to force him off at times.Chatting away in English and Tswana, the nephew of former Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates greats Gabriel Tikkie Khoza and Abram Mainline Khoza remains just as passionate about the game off the field, just as he is on it.At the moment, Mosimane is known as the country s most successful football coach with CAF Champions League, two PSL titles, MTN 8, Telkom Knockout and Nedbank Cup trophies to his name.He is the first and only South African coach to win the Champions League and the only black South African coach to win the league title.In between the long interview, Mosimane throws some questions to Sundowns hands-on spokesperson Thulani Thuswa, who Mosimane requests to check if the coach of the year award on the continent will be handed in January. I want to plan my holiday, you know. I have to plan. If I am not nominated, then I will have to go away with my wife. Help me know what is happening, Thulani, Mosimane says.The former Bafana Bafana coach opens up about his family, how he would have loved his late parents to be around to see him win the CAF Champions League and how much he loves the National Basketball Association.But where did it all begin for the man known as Jingles?The journey started in Kagiso in the winter of 1964, when Pitso John Hamilton Mosimane was born in the Gauteng township.All through his primary and secondary school life, the boy always knew that he would want to play football, even though his parents thought a career in BCom accounting would best suit him.His refusal to take a career path that his parents chose for him caused a huge war at his home, but nothing was going to take him away from football. Football has always been my first love. I grew up in a family of footballers. My uncles used to play for Pirates and Chiefs. They are all deceased. Gabriel Tikkie Khoza and Abram Mainline Khoza they were twins, Mosimane says. They are my mother s younger brothers. I was born into a football family. My parents wanted me to go to school, but I was too much into football. I (later) studied at Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) but dropped out. I did that to get basics. I looked at speed training, about how the body and blood circulation work. I wanted to know the digestive system, know about periodisation. Then (the university) came with business management and I left. I don t see myself in an office, I will get bored. My parents wanted me to study BCom but my passion was on the pitch. Ah, those guys (commerce professionals) are boring. They always have papers. What I am doing is exciting. I can t be filling in forms. My parents did not like it as well. What would follow was a career that saw Mosimane join Jomo Cosmos as a powerful left-footed striker.Sundowns came knocking soon after, enticing the talented hit man to Pretoria.Second spells with the two teams followed, before he went to join Orlando Pirates, later moving to Ionikos in Greece, Rita Belhaar and Al Sadd.The truth is, Mosimane was a great player in the same way he is pretty much lighting up the stage as a coach, starting with a SuperSport United stint back in 2012 that resulted in an MTN 8 title, then known as the SAA Supa 8.Little known is that Mosimane s love for coaching began in Belgium when he was appointed assistant coach to his former team s U-12 side.Mosimane, who is father to 17-year-old daughter Lelentle, 15-year-old Kopano and five-year-old football fanatic Reatlegile, credits the late former Sundowns coach Ted Dumitru as one person who made him fall in love with coaching. Ted Dumitru is the one who gave me my first coaching chance, to be honest. I was at Sundowns as a player and I was interested in coaching. I was interested, Mosimane says. I asked if I could take one of the junior team, like the MultiChoice Diski Challenge team we have now. I had Old John Mabizela in the team and Benedict Vilakazi. Bennett Mnguni and Mlungisi Gumbi were in my team. I was coaching that team. I got more interested in coaching. This was around the late 90s when Sundowns won three trophies in a row. (Daniel) Mambush and (Raphael) Chukwu were scoring. They put me on the bench. But I was preparing another life. I was also assistant coach for the under-12s while I was playing there. The arrival in coaching introduced South Africans to a new side to Mosimane.His outspoken nature has earned him fans and enemies, but Mosimane does not think he will compromise who he is for the sake of being liked. I don t worry about people who say I am arrogant. I worry about my input in football. I worry about doing the right thing. Some people will always not be happy with you. I am trampling on people s toes. It is normal. I am a person who says what he thinks. I am not one to be suppressed, Nelson Mandela gave us the freedom to speak. I don t worry about what people say about me. I look at the facts and respond. There are people who are very apologetic. Even if you are right, you lack character. That is not who I am. When I say Sundowns can or should have beaten Chiefs or Pirates, people think I am arrogant because those teams are big and have a huge following. But it is the truth. We can and we will beat them. I have been called a big mouth and I am okay with that. I take it. I believe I can win the Club World Cup. That I can beat Real Madrid. I am called a troublemaker. Jomo Sono asked questions. Mandela asked questions. Other coaches are nice guys. They go and complain at home. I say what is bothering me and if I am wrong, I apologise. For a man who has achieved so much, there can t be too many things to regret.Surprisingly though, Mosimane regrets how he left Bafana and he would have loved for his parents to see his CAF Champions League triumph. I have lost those special people (his parents) and I wish they were here. I wanted to show them what I have achieved. I wish they were here to see me win the Champions League. I was with SuperSport United when my father passed away. My mother died when I was still playing in Greece, Mosimane says. I am disappointed in how I left Bafana and not making the Cup of Nations after leading the group until the last match. It was because of that rule that became an embarrassment. Being sacked too was disappointing. I knew what I had. The passion I had. It was way too early (to sack me). I drew against Ghana, Cameroon, Senegal, Ivory Coast. The draws were not against small teams. I always wanted to play big teams to boost the team s confidence. I was preparing the team for World Cup qualifiers. I was never given a proper chance. They just said I am not winning. I just went with the Bible phrase that God forgive them, they don t know what they are doing . I was fired there and continued my African mission, where I won the Champions League. I think I could have won the Cup of Nations. I want to help Sundowns to 10 titles before I can go to Bafana. Mosimane is trying to spend time with his wife and children as much as he can before he goes to Japan to challenge for the Club World Cup against top sides like Real Madrid.Other than being a great football coach or admiring the work and writings of former NBA coach Phil Jackson, Mosimane is a self-proclaimed sandwich guru. I enjoy spending time with family at home. Being home is great, especially during school holidays when the kids are home. I make them the best sandwiches and try out the braai and I burn the meat! he says. I listen to their age-related jokes and then picture myself what I was doing at that age. The plan is to spend time with them before the Club World Cup. Because there is the Club World Cup coming and we are going to have fun. Let us have fun. At the back of my mind, I am thinking we can surprise (other clubs). We won t be adding numbers. We have a good strong team. We can beat Real Madrid. If that does not work out, Mosimane will be content with winning the African coach of the year.He would have loved to be on the shortlist of best coaches in the world, but since Africa does not seem to be known in those spaces, Mosimane is looking forward to the continental gong. Nooooo, I don t know. Have you ever seen any African in that space? Has any African coach ever been nominated for that award? That thing does not exist for us. I know it needs to happen but I don t see it happening now. Why should I be there when no one in Africa has been there? I should expect to be nominated for African coach of the year. It is normal. When there is a Cup of Nations, they give it to the coach who won the Cup of Nations, the Sundowns coach said.MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za