 WITH Itumeleng Khune in your team, half of your problems are solved Bafana coach Shakes Mashaba said to describe the significance of his goalkeeper.Khune has stormed back into top form this season, reclaiming his position in the national team with virtuoso performances. And his value hasn t been lost to Mashaba. He is undoubtedly one of the best goalkeepers in the world and I am still baffled as to why one of the top European clubs hasn t signed him. He is world class and is among the top 10 goalkeepers in the world. With him marshalling the back line, you can rest assured half your problems are solved. Khune made his debut aged 20 in a friendly against Zimbabwe in 2008 and started for South Africa in the Fifa Confederations Cup and in the 2010 World Cup finals. Highly rated by Real Madrid goalkeeper Keylor Navas, Khune is described as a player with higher than normal diving skills and reflexes, making him a skilled shot and free-kick stopper with elite kicking abilities and accurate goal kicks.A patriot through and through, the 29-year-old keeper played through a diarrhoea scare in the recent qualifier against Burkina Faso. And that perhaps explained why Mashaba often praises his first choice goalkeeper, who has already earned Bafana an invaluable point in the World Cup qualifier campaign.Without letting the cat out of the bag, Mashaba, however, hinted Khune would be the first name on his team sheet against Senegal in Saturday s World Cup qualifier at Peter Mokaba Stadium, saying a super-fit Khune was just as good as any best goalkeeper in the world .Besides, Ronwen Williams is already doubtful for the decisive qualifier, the SuperSport United goalie having sat out training with a collarbone injury. Tebogo Langerman and Dean Furman have already been ruled out of the match with injuries while Andile Jali was been treated on his thigh injury.Bafana returnee Daine Klate watched training from the sidelines as he nurses a bone contusion bruise. But Mashaba is neither fazed by the injuries nor intimidated by Senegal s big name players, buoyed by past records, which show very little has separated the two sides in their past meetings. We might not have dominated them but they haven t dominated us either. I think on our day, we have what it takes to beat the best sides in the world, Senegal included. kgomotsos@thenewage. co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha