Kenya President Uhuru Kenyatta warmly welcomed dozens of UN agencies, development partners and senior government officials to the State House early in November to discuss his joint development plan from 2014 to 2018.He believes in the transformational power of the government-UN partnership to address national priorities for sustainable development.The UN Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) is a critical document that guides the government and UN partnership. Progress has been made on HIV-Aids, clean water, energy, food security, and the environment during the past two years. I am impressed by the progress (on poverty and various vulnerabilities) achieved since our last meeting in August, 2015. It is truly encouraging to see the vision turn to action. Testimonials abound regarding this impact. They include a 70-year-old woman who received treatment after suffering fistula for 50 years, matatu (public transport vehicle) owners who have improved the terms and conditions of drivers and conductors and a women s community group bordering the Amboseli National Park who are part of conservation efforts through livelihood programmes.The innovative governments of Kenya-Ethiopia s cross-border programme on peace has the potential of being replicated in other parts of the world. The UNDAF in Kenya is recognised by UN Development as a best practice in creating an alliance shaped by common interests and shared purpose, and bounded by principles that encourage autonomy and synergy. The framework was developed according to the UN Delivering As One principles aimed at ensuring government ownership and internal coherence among UN agencies and programmes operating in Kenya.The partners have also been able to jointly recognise and agree on the national, regional and global realities that should inform their interventions. For instance, both are aware of Kenya s looming youth bulge with 1 million young people joining the workforce annually and the need to turn it into a demographic dividend. We must focus on our youth and provide alternatives to crime, violent extremism and despondency, the president said.Kenya is on a journey to realising Vision 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals.New realities are bringing about new threats to social and economic development, calling for new approaches, but also creating new opportunities for collaboration. These approaches may involve deepening private-public partnerships to engage a third force private companies that have unique innovation and implementation capabilities.This engagement can develop better and more integrated solutions to national challenges.Ultimately, this framework is aimed at achieving a transformation in the lives of every Kenyan and ensuring no one is left behind .Siddharth Chatterjee Siddharth Chatterjee is the UN coordinator and UNDP representative in Kenya