MEC promises state-of-the-art facility for disabled pupilsA fresh start is the best solution to infrastructure challenges at Tlamelang Special School located at Gelukspan Hospital near Mahikeng, education and sport development MEC Sello Lehari said after visiting the school this week.Lehari was accompanied by the provincial legislature portfolio committee on education, sport, arts, culture and traditional affairs.The visit was meant to monitor the infrastructural challenges experienced by the school and staff complement.Tlamelang Special School made headlines recently due to poor construction that endangered teachers and pupils alike. The school caters for the educational needs of children with disabilities.The portfolio committee was accompanied by departmental officials who explained the position of the department.For a long time, the school has operated on the grounds of Gelukspan Hospital, using buildings owned by the provincial health department. After an inspection of the facilities, MEC Lehari said that the solution to the infrastructural challenges at Tlamelang Special School was to build new classrooms. It is difficult to expand or renovate the school since it is situated inside the premises of the Gelukspan Hospital buildings belonging to another department. We need to seek permission first from that department. In the space where the school is built there is no capacity for development. We need to relocate the school to a new environment. We will build them a top of the range school with resources relevant to pupils with special needs, Lehari said.He said that the department was about to conclude the securing of land for the school with the local traditional authority.The MEC said that the project to build the new school would commence at the beginning of the next financial year.Portfolio committee chairperson Boitumelo Moiloa said that there was a need to work together with the department so that better infrastructure is delivered for the welfare of teachers and pupils. This visit means a lot for us, we are here to work hand in glove with the department. We are not here to police them but to caution them about their shortcomings and the direction that we think they can channel the money we have appropriated for them as the government. There are still challenges at the school, we will meet with the department later to discuss the way forward to improve conditions, Moiloa said.-ELFAS TORERAI