As the Springboks try to figure out ways to come back from their loss to England at the weekend, centre Damian de Allende does not believe changing the side will be an answer.The 24-year-old Stormers centre, who partnered Francois Venter in the last match, has been eased back into the team following injury.Boks coach Allister Coetzee and his technical team are scrambling for answers to finish the End of Year Tour on a good note.De Allende reckons until the players get to know each other and gel, Coetzee should shelve thoughts of changing his struggling side. It will always been tough for 10, 12 and 13, if we keep changing every week. We need to get to know each other better. Once that happens, it will be easy to rotate. That will come with knowing the system, De Allende said. We will have to go with the set places. It has been tough for me to come back. Things are getting better. I am a lot more positive, more confident. I have been putting pressure on myself.The fitness is coming back and I just want to play rugby. I think more game time will help. I was not in form in the Rugby Championship, the player who also does duty for Japanese Top League-based side Kintetsu Liners said.Meanwhile, Coetzee will be forced to face Italy with a new lock partnership, as Eben Etzebeth has been ruled out following the concussion he suffered against England.The towering lock has left the team, but Coetzee has decided not to call in a replacement.This means Pieter-Steph du Toit will likely go back to his natural lock position, where he might partner Lood de Jager, while Franco Mostert will provide cover from the bench.This opens up a playing opportunity for Nizaam Carr, who could find himself starting in the number six or seven jersey.Oupa Mohoje and Willem Alberts have both provided cover in the lock position previously and could do the same if the need arises.Bryan Habana, who did not play against England, had a full run in training this week and will be available for selection.Flanker Uzair Cassiem joined the squad on Sunday in Italy as a replacement for Roelof Smit.Mmasekepe Matsebanemmasekepem@thenewage.co.za