When Trump says he is going to build a wall along the 3200km long US-Mexican frontier we must conclude he is only speaking metaphorically a fence between Mexico and the United States already exists and it is already heavily policed.Trump discovered that he had insulted, not only Mexican immigrants to the US, but all Mexicans when he said: The Mexican government is forcing their most unwanted people into the United States. They are, in many cases, criminals, drug dealers, rapists and so on. Following this he immediately arranged a trip to Mexico to meet President Pena Nieto to reassure him of his own personal goodwill towards the country, but to very little effect. The damage to US-Mexican relations and to community relations within the US, had already been done.Why does Trump say Mexico should pay for the wall? What does the wall symbolise to Trump and his supporters?What Trump concludes, and to some extent he is correct, is that Mexico is externalising its problems onto the US. That Mexico s failure to tackle poverty and to provide jobs for its own people means that the country has been obliged to absorb mass migration.That mass emigration from Mexico, in addition to the benefits it brings the US, has also had a cost and a negative impact on US society. Trump concludes that Mexico s failure to deal with drug trafficking, primarily caused by poverty in its rural areas, has resulted in the export of crime and drugs from Mexico to the US.Trump, despite all the contradictions he embodies, presents himself, just as Bernie Sanders does, as being against the negative effects of globalisation on the US which is, ironically, the central nexus of globalisation.Trump presents himself as a heretic, as someone who opposes economic orthodoxies like free trade. He believes, he says, in tariffs and protectionism and he doesn t believe, he says, in the free movement of labour. For example, Trump made the issue of Ford building a $2.5bn (R35bn) plant in Mexico into an important campaign issue. But what if the cars are more expensive? asked a US TV interviewer, sounding puzzled. And Trump explained patiently that, well, maybe Americans would buy fewer cars and pay more, but that the benefit would be that jobs and companies would stay in the US.Trump s wall is a metaphor for isolationism and protectionism. The idea of a wall is meant to be a symbol for containment, just as much as it is a symbol of protection, the retention of US manufacturing and business, the exclusion of migrant labour.At this point, we should recall the initial months of the presidency of George Bush. He was criticised by the US foreign policy establishment for his lack of interest in Middle East politics, for his seeming unconcern for the well-being of institutions like Nato.Initially, George Bush was focused on improving relations with Mexico and the rest of Latin America, he was interested in forming a strong hemispheric trading block. That is, until the attack on the Twin Towers, after which he was made to see the logic of and benefits of globalisation and to support the objectives of the US military industrial complex.The hope of the present political establishment in Washington is that in the six month period of transfer, that Trump will also be made to see reason; that he will come round to the view that the US needs to continue with its aggression towards Russia; that he will soften his stance on the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) and the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), both of which he strongly opposes at present.If this analysis is correct then Trump s wall is not primarily about trying to please older white racist men. It s not about a white backlash .The liberal analysis in the mainstream media touts this view, and in doing so it obscures the reality of the situation, that the contradictions of capitalism are making the majority of US citizens much poorer. That neo-liberalism with its smear of liberal icing on top has completely failed the citizens of the US and of the whole world.Katherine Viner, the editor of the Guardian, sums up this view based on the Guardian s bankrupt version of identity politics. Viner has nothing to say about the ravages of globalisation, but what she does say is: It was a terrible night for women, for Muslims, for Hispanic Americans, for people who believe climate change is a real and present danger, for people who believe women have a right to abortion, for men and women who object to sexual harassment of the most brutal and obvious kind, for disabled people, for black people, for Jewish people, for gay people, for progressives, for liberals, for people who believe Barack Obama was born in the US, for a free and independent media working in the public interest. And what if the liberals are right? What if Trump s critique of globalisation is just a pose? After all, perhaps he really is only a prejudiced, puffed up, unforgiveable, misogynistic, racist? What if he does want to build a physical wall 20 metres high? What if his intention is merely to box out Mexicans and box in US citizens? To quote a Texan cowboy, Richard Brush: I d like to see him build a wall. I d like to see him stop Mexicans from crossing. He doesn t understand that a president only fine tunes policy. He s alienated so many people he ll never get anything done, and when it comes round to 2020 we ll all be there to hold him to account. To shove it up him and down him every which way. Phillip HallPhillip Hall is a writer and commentator