An increasing number of fraud and corruption cases over the past three years was indicative of an entrenched endeavour by people to defraud South Africa’s social grants systems. This was one of the reasons given by Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini for the establishment of an inspectorate for social assistance that will provide an improved level of oversight and governance over the state’s social assistance function. At a press conference in Parliament yesterday, she also gave the assurance that the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) will be able to pay social grants from next April when its contract with a service provider ends. “I am confident that the new CEO of Sassa will be up to the task and the government will be able to ensure that social grants continue to be paid come April 1, 2017. We are also confident that the transitional process will run smoothly,” she said. Dlamini appealed to the media not to create unnecessary alarm. “We have done this before on many occasions and I believe that we can do this again.” Dlamini also announced the Cabinet had approved amendments to the Social Assistance Act. The changes will be released for public comment. The changes include, among others, alterations to the administration of social grants, the establishment of a supplementary benefits fund that will enable the government to give funeral benefits to the elderly, as well as a savings vehicle for caregivers of children. “The amendments also allow the ministers of social development and finance to make additional payments for certain social grants,” Dlamini said. On fraud and corruption, Dlamini said: “The grants administration system is being plagued by illegal deductions, involvement of Sassa officials in fraudulent activities, unethical conduct of health practitioners who deliberately recommend disability grant applicants receive a disability grant and officials accepting cash to approve grants.” A significant number of beneficiaries were also complaining about poor service delivery, claiming that the elderly were often neglected. “The establishment of the inspectorate as an independent entity within the department but out of Sassa will also provide an improved level of oversight as well as governance over the social assistance function,” Dlamini said. She said the inspectorate would further ensure that there was a maintenance of the integrity of the social assistance frameworks and systems. “This will be done through regulatory, policy measures and instruments, investigation of fraud, corruption and other forms of financial and service mismanagement, including criminal activity, in Sassa and in connection with its functions, duties and operations.” Dennis Cruywagen news@thenewage.co.za