Premier Supra Mahumapelo has dismissed sentiments by opposition parties in the province that seek to equate irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure to corruption after the release of the 2015 audit results by the auditor-general, Kimi Makwetu, last week.The report states that even though there was an increase in clean audits in North West, the province obtained a total of only 9% in clean audits.In the report, Makwetu had some positives but said many recurring issues needed to be attended to. We commend the province for submitting annual financial statements, however, the quality and availability of the underlying financial records remained a concern, with auditees relying on the audit process to produce credible financial statements. Had the material misstatements identified by the auditors not been corrected, only six of the auditees (19%) would have received a financially unqualified opinion as opposed to the reported 16 (49%), he said.The auditor-general said the material misstatements were due to the vacancies and lack of skills in key positions, which then contributed to the lack of daily and monthly financial disciplines. Except for the three clean audits, all other auditees (91%) had material findings on compliance. These findings included material misstatements in the submitted financial statements, the auditees inability to prevent irregular and fruitless and wasteful expenditure, as well as continued findings on procurement and contract management where SCM prescripts were not adhered to, he said.Makwetu said the lack of consequence management was leaving this issue of supply chain management pass unhindered. These SCM transgressions resulted in 98% of the irregular expenditure in the year under review and were mainly due to a lack of consequence management, noncompliance with legislation and a slow response by political leadership. This lack of consequence management has led to increased levels of irregular expenditure, with a further R2.976m (2015: R2.062m) incurred in the year under review, resulting in a total balance of R13.216m in unresolved irregular expenditure for the province, he said.DA provincial leader, Jo McGluwa said the R13m unresolved irregular expenditure was testimony that the Mahumapelo-led administration had failed the people of the North West.He claimed corruption was the major problem eating up the government s fabric and this had to be stopped.However, Mahumepaleo said political parties like the DA were working very hard to mislead the public by saying the irregular expenditure was a direct result of corruption. After the report the opposition normally hold press conferences and make announcement that this is an indication that the ANC government is corrupt. We are not saying there is no corruption and there is corruption and it is fought at all costs. Those involved must face the might of the law, Mahumapelo said. He said that irregular expenditure occurred when we the money was used but not for what it was meant to be spent on. Instead of buying a pen you buy water that is irregular. Fruitless expenditure is not corruption, it is for example when we have a meeting and we paid for the venue, for transportation of people and for the food and the meeting for whatever reason is cancelled. The suppliers will have to be paid despite the cancellation. For instance a storm can come now and remove a roof of a government building, before the roof can be replaced Public Finance Management Act regulations states that the work should be advertised and bid committee and adjudication committee should be established and that takes time. For the people to work from that building we need to put some temporary measures and that will be referred to as irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure and that is not corruption, the premier said.He said sometimes money was spent on disaster response and that could not be termed corruption. For instance, in a village somewhere, houses are blown off in the afternoon and so on, those people should be taken to a place of safety either you take them to lodges or somewhere that means you must pay and remember that was not budgeted for that will be referred to as wasteful or irregular expenditure, if you do not help them you are going to be seen as the government that is not caring and people can even march against you, he said.Mahumapelo said the provincial government had established a committee to deal with outcomes of the audit results. That is the committee that auditor-general said we lacked. It will deal with the unauthorised, irregular and fruitless expenditure that happens within the provincial government. That is why we have established another committee called consequence management committee so that there must consequences for not managing public funds in a proper manner, he said.Elfas Torerai and Ellekia Direprovinces@thenewage.co.za