The Bophelong Psychiatric Hospital in Mafikeng closed October on a high by taking mental health messages to the community.October is declared a mental health awareness month with the aim of not only educating the public about mental health but also to reduce the stigma and discrimination that people with mental illness are often subjected to.Mental health affects both the young and the old and people often find it difficult to handle those affected.Dozens of community members gathered to listen to messages from health professionals on what can be done to deal with the challenge of mental illness. The event was attended by local chief Kgosi Thabo Seatlholo, Bophelong Psychiatric Hospital board chairperson, Prof Joel Maubane, Manas Thapo and other board members. There was also a representative from the mental health review board.Tshepo Seleka, a child psychiatric nurse specialist at the hospital said that signs and symptoms of mental illness in children need early detection so that necessary support is provided to teachers and families.Dr Thabo Tshabalala, a psychiatrist at Bophelong Psychiatric Hospital also warned that drug abuse is one factor that might lead to mental illness. Depression, anxiety, substance abuse and job stress are common. They affect individuals, their families and coworkers and the broader community, he said. They have a direct impact on workplaces through increased absenteeism, reduced productivity and increased costs. Tshabalala added that very few South Africans seek treatment for their mental disorders. Mental illness can be treated at your nearest clinic, hospital or healthcare provider. For those patients that are on treatment, it is important for the communities or family members to monitor whether such patients take their medication, Tshabalala said.The unfortunate part about these patients is that if they are to harm anybody, they start in the family. Prof Joel Maubane applauded Bophelong Psychiatric Hospital personnel for their hard work and commitment under such difficult and dangerous situations. Seatlholo said he has made an agreement with hospital chief executive officer, Molefi Monokoane to have more on mental health awareness next year.Elfas Toreraielfast@thenewage.co.za