When Mamelodi Sundowns forked out millions of rands and offered two players in Mogakolodi Ngele and Cuthbert Malajila for Sibusiso Vilakazi, they were fighting tooth and nail for a match winner and potential fan favourite.Given his exploits with Bidvest Wits in past seasons, where he was in such fine form that he was named footballer of the year and also captained the side, Vilakazi was expected to be a hit in a Sundowns side overflowing with quality. But after nine matches for his new side this season, Vilakazi has only managed one goal, a deflected effort against SuperSport United in a MTN8 quarterfinal.One of those nine matches was the MTN8 final which Sundowns lost 3-0 to his former team, Bidvest Wits. Recently, the Bafana Bafana midfielder was among those players to miss an avalanche of chances for Sundowns in the Telkom Knockout loss to SuperSport and missing his team s last penalty attempt in the shoot out.Naturally, such a run that includes two missed cups and a lack of goals in the process will agitate fans who expected a lot more from the 26 year old. Howver, coach Pitso Mosimane appears far from worried, as he is impressed with how Vilakazi is settling into the team and learning more about his expected role.While the fans expected an immediate impact from a player, who is no doubt a big asset to the wealthy Brazilians, Mosimane said he is patiently trying to help Vilakazi understand how the PSL and African champions function and also helping him become an even better player for both Sundowns and Bafana. We need to be patient with Vilakazi. He is an important player for us. That is why we bought him. The best is yet to come from him. We did not buy him for the Telkom Knockout. We are with him for the long haul. We want him for the Champions League next year. We want him to play in Japan. We want to see him play against Mazembe in the Super Cup, Mosimane said. That is a Bafana player. You saw him against Cameroon, Algeria. There is a lot of quality there. But we have to be patient with him. His game changed at Sundowns. He is even playing in central midfield. He is chasing and dispossessing players. We are building a Bafana player here, a top player. I love how he plays. He loves putting people through on goal. Vilakazi is in Polokwane with Shakes Mashaba s Bafana side that take on Senegal in a 2018 World Cup qualifier on Saturday at the Peter Mokaba stadium.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane