DESPITE more than 30 top-selling albums and a number of awards to his name, Dr Thomas Chauke is still a humble musician. Respecting everybody under the sun and humbling myself has kept me going through the years , the man referred to as the King of Tsonga music said.Chauke, took time out of his busy schedule to speak to The New Age after the release of his recent 35th album, titled Xiganga. The album is a continuation of my journey from my previous release, Simatsatsa. Having been in the music industry for 30 years has been a blessing. I am grateful for the ability to deliver social messages through my music. Recording music for me is not about making money, it is what God Almighty appointed me to do, to deliver messages to my people. Almost all of Chauke s albums have either reached gold, platinum and double platinum status, something he attributes to the support and trust his loyal fans have been able to provide constantly.To add to his long list of achievements Chauke boasts a string of musical accolades, among them 13 Sama awards three Satma awards and 11 Mugane Lonene FM music awards. This does not include the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Greater Tzaneen municipality as well as his honorary doctorate from the University of Venda, both for his contribution to the Tsonga music. One of the highlights of my life is the honorary doctorate from the University of Venda in 2010, presented to me by the then deputy president of the country, Kgalema Motlanthe. That will be one of the moments I will always cherish, Chauke, who dropped out of school at primary levelm said. The only boy in the family of five girls, Chauke had to leave school to seek employment. I left Saselamani village in 1969 for Heidelberg where I got employment at a flower firm, but I only worked for a mere three months, then in 1971 I went to stay at Alexandra. But since I did not have any income, I started to fix swimming pools and tennis courts in Sandton for survival, he says.It was while working in Sandton, that his childhood passion started to become a reality, when he met his uncle who was a mbaqanga musician and played the famous Tsonga guitar. In our free time, my uncle would take time to teach me how to play the guitar. Seven years later, I went back home and started a small business fixing radio sets, he said.The award-winning Tsonga musician subsequently met a man who was selling his guitar for R15 and that is when his flourishing musical journey started to take shape.For him to make ends meet he formed a band, Xikundu Stars, which comprised 13 vocalists, with him as the only instrumentalist playing the guitar. We started to organise performances at local schools and at some stage we made a whopping R150. We then realised we could make a life out of music, especially by performing live. We packed our bags and headed for the City of Gold. By then the band was left with only five vocalists, as these members were impatient to build this dream , he said.In 1980, the band had an opportunity to record their debut album after he signed with GRC Music. Our dream was turned into a reality when we recorded the debut album titled Shimatsatsa Number 1, using the band name Thomas Chauke and the Shinyori Sisters. After the recording was done, it was time for the band to market their debut album.The legendary musician and the band would go to the nearby Dube railway station, as they were staying in Meadowlands at the time. They started performing to commuters at peak hours.As their music gained popularity, the band was getting invitations to perform at bigger venues like the Jabulani Amphitheatre and other local community halls around Soweto. We were the first ever group to perform at the Tsonga Festival at the Jabulani amphitheatre, the Tsonga music king says with pride. Despite all his achievements, the ever-humble multi-award winning legendary and self taught musician, still has a big dream before he hangs up his guitar. I would like to work in collaboration with General Musika, a fairly unknown musician who hails from Bushbuckridge . He is such a great presence on stage. His energy inspires me. Chauke is set to record his first ever live DVD, which will be made up of some of his best work so far. He admitted it was a mammoth task to select which material to include, considering the work he has done. His other wish he said is to perform on some of South Africa s biggest stages like your Cape Town International Jazz, Macufe, Joy of Jazz.&#8221; It pains me that I have performed for international audiences but I hardly perform for the people who actually buy my music, the musician, who performed in France recently, said. Chauke emphasises that as much as he has produced award-winning hit songs, he does not sit and write music. The minute I pick up my guitar, irrespective of time, place or situation, I get the rhythm and that is how I come up with these great songs. It is a gift that God blessed me with, the man who is a great believer in the Lord said.Chauke started his band with 13 singers from a shebeen in the late 1970s . They performed at school halls to raise money to go to Johannesburg and realise the recording dream. In 1981, he recorded his first album called Shimatsatsa no. 1 under the burner name Thomas Chauke and Shinyori Sisters.-robertt@thenewage.co.za