The unveiling of a state-of-the-art footbridge, constructed at a cost of more than R7m by the provincial department of public works, roads and transport, in Ronaldsy, near Mkhuhlu outside Bushbuckridge, has brought happiness to the provincial traditional leadership as well.The bridge was officially unveiled by the public works, roads and transport, MEC Sasekani Manzini. The chairperson of the Mpumalanga house of traditional leaders, chief Lameck Mokoena, said they welcomed the efforts by the provincial government in enhancing the provision of services, even in the jurisdictions of traditional leaders. Mokoena said the provincial leadership of traditional authorities would continue to strengthen its cooperation with the provincial government in ensuring that their subjects receive better services since the majority of areas in the province were still under the control of traditional leaders. I am confident that when we are working closely with the MEC and the provincial government at large, this will surely help to improve the infrastructures in our communities. We would like to express our deepest gratitude to the government for delivering such good service to our communities, Mokoena said.Manzini said the bridge had to be built after the roads linking the area of Ronaldsy to neighbouring villages were destroyed by floods and became difficult for the people to cross to the other side. She said the poor roads were also hindering the improvement of the economy and other related activities among the villages. We are opening this new footbridge after heavy floods disconnected the village from the rest of the economic activities and accessibility to basic services such as clinics, schools and graveyards. The department invested more than R7m during the construction of the bridge. The government will continue to provide quality of life to its people. We have built roads, bridges, clinic and schools. Now, the construction of the state-ofthe-art traffic training college is under way, Manzini said.France Nyakafrancen@thenewage.co.za