Following three days of brutal debate and discussions on the position of President Jacob Zuma, the ANC s national executive committee (NEC) agreed on a way forward late last night.NEC member and Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom caused a furore on Saturday when he tabled a motion for Zuma to step down as president of the republic.Various sources close to the meeting confirmed to The New Age yesterday that this was one of the most serious challenges to Zuma s leadership they had witnessed for a while. Since Saturday, the debate on comrade Derek s proposal has been robust. I am glad that sense finally prevailed at the end. Until lunchtime, comrades advanced their arguments for and against the proposal. It is not our tradition to vote on issues in the NEC. Consensus was reached on the withdrawal of the proposal in the interests of party unity, a source said.Another source described the meeting as brutal but necessary .The source said: The extension of the meeting was a blessing in disguise. It afforded all the comrades an opportunity to bring out into the open tensions and corridor talk over the president. The notion of having two centres of power will have deepened the divide in the movement and will have had a serious impact on grassroots structures. It will not work. The task now is to move forward as a united collective. It s going to be a difficult task following the events of the past three days. We made a start yesterday afternoon. Against the background of the toxic atmosphere of the NEC meeting, it remains to be seen whether Zuma will proceed with a much anticipated Cabinet reshuffle.Another source said that Free State Premier Ace Magashule led the charge and called for Hanekom and other members of the Cabinet who supported the proposal to step down themselves.The source said the meeting degenerated to a level where those opposed to Zuma were labelled as people acting on behalf of handlers and agents acting on a regime change agenda . This was the worst I have witnessed for a long time. At one point some NEC members had to seek the protection of the chairperson, the source said.A concern expressed by one source was how the fallout of the Cabinet members who had called for the head of the president would be managed going forward.TNA Reportersnews@thenewage.co.za