Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba has reiterated that there needs to be a strong focus on jobs and economic development in Johannesburg.Mashaba was speaking at a special meeting of the mayoral committee last week where a number of the special projects operated by the city were presented for consideration of their impact and feasibility. Projects under the previous administration were misguided in their approach to economic development and lacked a focus on sustainable economic growth and job creation. This is why the ranks of the unemployed in Johannesburg grew to over 800000 in the last five years, he said.He referred to projects planned in previous years as vanity projects that looked great on billboards but were lowyield, short-term approaches to our economic challenges .These projects include Jozi My Beginning a partnership agreement with the University of Johannesburg that has the city investing R50m into speculative small business investments, including micro-container malls.Jozi Digital Ambassadors where R70m was spent on training people to use the city s free Wi-Fi. Blue Economy projects where R150m was set aside for solar powered bakeries using imported mango flour from South America, micro-mushroom farms and stone paper projects.Mashaba said: To grow our economy in Johannesburg to the point that we can reverse unemployment, we need serious measures and they have to be premised by a city that creates the service and economic preconditions to growth. The mayor called on Johannesburg to remove the many barriers to investment. Johannesburg needs to become an attractive place for businesses to set up and employ our people. There also needs to be a strong focus on small- and medium-sized business as the real employment accelerators.Mashaba committed to growing the economy by a minimum of 5% to be able to bring down unemployment from 30% to under 20% by 2021. This economic growth can only happen when the government plays a facilitation role. I have staked my next term on this, but it will require bold action, Mashaba said. Projects undertaken by the city must serve to increase economic opportunities to all its residents and make meaningful inroads into unemployment.Thelma Ngoma| thelman@thenewage.co.za Focus on jobs and economy in Joburg JOHANNESBURG mayor Herman Mashaba has reiterated that there needs to be a strong focus on jobs and economic development in Johannesburg.Mashaba was speaking at a special meeting of the mayoral committee last week where a number of the special projects operated by the city were presented for consideration of their impact and feasibility. Projects under the previous administration were misguided in their approach to economic development and lacked a focus on sustainable economic growth and job creation. This is why the ranks of the unemployed in Johannesburg grew to over 800000 in the last five years, he said.He referred to projects planned in previous years as vanity projects that looked great on billboards but were lowyield, short-term approaches to our economic challenges .These projects include Jozi My Beginning a partnership agreement with the University of Johannesburg that has the city investing R50m into speculative small business investments, including micro-container malls.Jozi Digital Ambassadors where R70m was spent on training people to use the city s free Wi-Fi. Blue Economy projects where R150m was set aside for solar powered bakeries using imported mango flour from South America, micro-mushroom farms and stone paper projects.Mashaba said: To grow our economy in Johannesburg to the point that we can reverse unemployment, we need serious measures and they have to be premised by a city that creates the service and economic preconditions to growth. The mayor called on Johannesburg to remove the many barriers to investment. Johannesburg needs to become an attractive place for businesses to set up and employ our people. There also needs to be a strong focus on small- and medium-sized business as the real employment accelerators.Mashaba committed to growing the economy by a minimum of 5% to be able to bring down unemployment from 30% to under 20% by 2021. This economic growth can only happen when the government plays a facilitation role. I have staked my next term on this, but it will require bold action, Mashaba said. Projects undertaken by the city must serve to increase economic opportunities to all its residents and make meaningful inroads into unemployment.Thelma Ngoma| thelman@thenewage.co.za