Edwin van der Sar was appointed as new CEO at Ajax Amsterdam two weeks ago but yesterday the legendary Dutch goalkeeper was announced as a new board member at sister club Ajax Cape Town. Van der Sar comes into the club barely a month after fellow Dutchman Stanley Menzo was appointed head coach of the Warriors.He has has proven to be a successful commercial director at the Dutch side and is seemingly destined for a bigger role at the Eredivisie side. A tweet from him read: This day is a special one for me. In 1989 I arrived in Amsterdam as a young goalkeeper. As of today I m the CEO of @AFCAjax. Ajax Cape Town commercial director boss Alexi Efstathiou expressed delight at Van der Sar s imminent arrival. It is hoped his expertise as marketing guru is going to come in a handy for a club going through one of the worst spells of its relatively young history.Ajax went into their Absa Premiership fixture against Platinum Stars last night yet to record a victory in nine matches this season. And at this rate, it ll take much more than a marketing success to help turn their season around. We are pleased with this choice of Van der Sar and we hope to take the brand to the world as we used to, Efstathiou said. We are confident that he will add to the strong board we currently have. This will definitely make Ajax an exciting team and brand. We welcome him with open arms and we hope to see him in Cape Town soon. I think this is a great step by the club and directors as one of the most celebrated football legends of the game and we are confident that his appointment will benefit the club, the players and everyone involved as he will bring his expertise. We also hope to see him in the new year, so we can discuss ideas such as bringing Ajax Amsterdam back back to play games and conduct some clinics. Van der Sar, the most decorated goalkeeper of all time, won 25 major trophies in his career, mainly at English Premiership side Manchester United and Ajax Amsterdam.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha