Sprint sensation Wayde van Niekerk has continued to reap rewards for his heroics at the Rio Olympics, adding another special recognition to his ever-growing list of accolades. The Olympic gold medallist received special recognition on Tuesday from the Association of National Olympic Committees (Anoc) for his spectacular performance at the Olympics. The 24-year-old 400m champion and world record-holder, who is also in line for the most prestigious accolade in global athletics after being confirmed as one three finalists for IAAF male athlete of the year, has been receiving awards since the Olympics ended. Locally, he is in contention for the SA Sports Star and Sportsman of the Year awards.He will be a favourite to scoop the two major awards at the ceremony in Bloemfontein on November 27. His performance at the Olympics saw him clock 43.03 seconds to win gold and set a 400m world record at the quadrennial spectacle and that was enough to see him being announced as the best male athlete of the Games at the Anoc awards ceremony in Qatar. It was an honour, a blessing and a privilege to represent my country at the Olympics, Van Niekerk said. This is a massive award for the Olympic 400m title and the world record and I m grateful for the opportunity. Van Niekerk will be battling it out with Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt and Mo Farah for the IAAF athlete of the year in December 2 in Monaco.Following the award on Tuesday, Van Niekerk could be favoured to walk away with the athlete of the year next month. Anoc s recognition of Wayde is testament to his continued record of excellence and dedication, said Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula. Wayne has over a short period of time emerged as one of the greatest athletes of this generation and the world is acknowledging that. This award is a first for a South African which further affirms Wayde as a living inspiration for our young people. Together with Kagiso Rabada, Caster Semenya and Seabelo Senatla, Van Niekerk is being voted in the People s Choice category of the SA Sport awards, and Mbalula has called on South Africans to cast their vote.-Neville Khoza