HEALTH authorities have warned about the dangers of using backstreet abortion clinics proliferating in cities across South Africa.The Johannesburg and Pretoria central business districts and other metros are littered with posters offering women pain-free abortions performed by bogus doctors at exorbitant costs. Legal abortions are offered free at public health facilities in South Africa.Ministry of health spokesperson Popo Maja has warned that pregnancy terminations by unregulated and illegal practitioners could lead to death. 185 maternal deaths related to miscarriage were recorded in the last count, he said.Maja said it was difficult to say how many of these were due to illegal abortions because the number also included deaths due to spontaneous miscarriages. However, he revealed that 84 236 terminations of pregnancy were performed between March 2015 and April 2016 at public facilities.The concern remains the number of women that pay these dubious backyard doctors between R100 and R1 800 for a procedure. The stigma attached to concealed, unwanted and unplanned pregnancies is given as the main reason women resort to life-threatening backyard abortions.Most backyard abortion providers do not offer pre- and aftercare information, while many do not even have any medical expertise to provide an efficient service such as proper examinations to assess the gestation period of the pregnancy.Many do not have the appropriate medication for women s needs during the procedure or afterwards should an emergency arise. Other factors that contribute to women opting for backstreet abortions include discrimination at contraception clinics and late presentation when they often find themselves past the 20-week limit for legal services.The New Age contacted a man who called himself Dr Oliver operating in Polokwane. He does the procedure on a six-months pregnant woman for R1300 by giving pills . After three hours everything would be fine, he said.Another bogus doctor operating in the Pretoria CBD charges R1 800 for a six-month termination. Thenjiwe Mthombeni, a woman who consulted an illegal doctor, said that her experience was horrifying. I did not know what kind of pills or the amount he put inside my vagina. It was so painful. When I got home I saw blood, it was so scary. A tiny foetus came out and I did not know what to do with it. Andrea Thompson, advocacy and engagement manager from Marie Stopes abortion clinics, said women terminated at all ages for all kinds of reasons. Each one is unique. We do know that due to stigma and often healthcare provider bias, younger women are given poorer access to contraceptive services. She said awareness was key to reducing the number of women seeking unsafe providers and accountability was key to reducing the number of unsafe abortion clinics. Until the public sector is fully equipped to meet the demand, especially for second trimester services, women would still seek out alternatives. Much more needs to be done to make clear that the Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act entitles women in South Africa to safe abortion services, Thompson said. Stigma often drives women to go the unsafe route. At the same time, law enforcement and health officials have a role in shutting down illegal providers, she said.Thompson said that her advice for women was that they should listen to their bodies, menstrual cycles and try to detect a pregnancy as early as possible. The choice to terminate is the right of every woman in South Africa up to 20 weeks. A women considering a termination should seek out a safe, trusted and accredited provider. Women should remember that while abortion is always a challenging decision, we have the right to the service under the law and should not allow ourselves to be discriminated against. Importantly, women should not allow healthcare providers to turn them away from a safe abortion service, Thompson said.-DIKELEDI RAMABOPA