Two men were hacked to death in an apparent gang-related bloodbath in extensions 10 and 5 of Bophelong in Vanderbijlpark.The war between the gangs emanate from a rivalry that started in December last year at an initiation school and has resulted in ongoing violence throughout the year.Pictures of the hacked and bloody bodies of the deceased, 17-year-old Diamond gang leader Teboho Molakeng from extension 6 and Mopheme gang leader Mpoho Elias Kgaule, 23, of extension 14, were this week sent to The New Age by a community member who is concerned that the gang warfare is putting the lives of innocent people at risk.The murders took place on November 12 and 13. These gangs are so ruthless they can cut off a head without thinking twice.They do all this in broad daylight, eyewitness Njabulo Sibanyoni said. I was on my way to buy food when I saw groups of people outside a house demanding to see one of the gang leaders. The gangs search proved fruitless and they torched the rival gang member s house. They all had axes, pangas, knives, guns and dangerous weapons. As the community, we are not feeling safe at all. Sgt Gertrude Makhale confirmed that it appeared that the murders were revenge for a killing in December last year. It is not clear what the fight is about, but they appear to be avenging the stabbing of one of their own last year in December, Makhale said.The Diamond gang leader s brother, Kgotso Ndaba, said the murders were all about power and influence in the community. My brother is wanted and in hiding and they want him dead, Ndaba said, explaining the reasons for the murder. It is because of the power and influence he has over others. He said the family felt bad and helpless about the murders. There is nothing we can do. What is done is done, Ndaba said.The community is fearful that there could be more revenge killings. The community police forum chairperson David Ndindwa also expressed concern. This has now become a big problem in the community. As the CPF we had to intervene to protect our people, Ndindwa said. We have asked family members to please come out and alert us about any gang activity and parents have come forward enabling us to find some of these gang members and where they are living. He said they were working closely with the police. We have managed to calm the situation. We need assistance from families so we can assess these initiation schools because this is where the rivalry and gang mentality is born. LUNGANI MNGUNI | news@thenewage.co.za