One of President Trump s foremost plans in winning the US election has been to restrict free trade deals, with immediate plans to terminate the North American Free Trade agreement (Nafta).Nafta is also known as the free trade agreement between Canada, Mexico and the US, which eliminated tariffs between the three nations, allowing for economic flow between them, amounting to trade of $1.4bn (R20bn) per day between the US and Mexico.Nafta has been criticised for failing to require a minimum working wage and to protect the rights of citizens to form unions. It s also failed to prohibit child labour, forced labour, illegal wildlife trafficking, over-fishing and illegal logging, to mention only a few violations of human rights, which it permits.A bilateral agreement to Nafta is the TransPacific Partnership (TTP), which only came to light recently. There are 12 countries which form a part of TTP, such as Brazil, China, France, India, Italy, Japan and Mexico, which has a yearly GDP of $27.4 trillion per year.Wasting no time, China s president Xi Jinping has set off to Latin America with a host of proposed trade deals. China has large aims to conquer Latin America in order to capitalise on the expected withdrawal from the US, not only from the Nafta agreement but the TTP too. In an effort to capitalise, China has been offering free trade agreements more openly whereas before it would ve stayed particularly in alignment with left-wing nations.Trump said: I think Nafta has been a disaster. I think our current deals are a disaster. I m a free trader. The problem with free trade is you need smart people representing you. We have the greatest negotiators in the world but we don t use them. We use political hacks and diplomats. We use the wrong people. Mexico is smart they have out-negotiated us to a fare-thee-well. Ultimately, the TTP would have been the perfect opportunity for Canada and Mexico to revise and improve the almost non-existent Nafta policies.China has signed several agreements in the past few years with Latin American countries of which it has promised to double bilateral trade to $500bn in the next 10 years and to increase stock to $250bn. China is focused on energy as well as military deals. China is focused on commodities, in particular copper, iron and soya beans. Some have argued that as China manufactures so cheaply, it may undermine the domestic industry to focus on imports from Latin America.However, China has been quick to capitalise on the US deliberations. In September, China bought a 23% state stake in a Brazilian energy utility for $1.8bn. Trump has said that not only will he withdraw from Nafta but he also plans to withdraw from the TTP, which leaves the Latin America region open to trade agreements from Brics nations. This should make it particularly easy for China to invest and it was only last year that Argentina signed a $1bn agreement to purchase Chinese military weaponry.China s regional integration efforts in Latin America and South America would economically boost trade between the countries. If the Beijing Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, which covers 16 nations and accounts for 30% of the global GDP succeeds, then we can expect to see an Asia-Pacific free trade area prosper.Some have warned that the decision of the US to withdraw from the TTP could be bad news for US interests in the Pacific region. Others say this will be disastrous for the economy and for China/US relations, as Trump has planned to place tariffs of 45% on Chinese products. Yet China has not been completely diplomatically ruthless in this matter and, in fact, warned US president Trump against weakening trade between the Pacific as it might stunt economic growth.An official from Xinhua news agency said: Turning his trade-bashing campaign talks into actual policies could bash any hope that the Asia-Pacific will finally have its muchwanted free trade deal, worse, it could drag his country and the wider world into deeper economic distress. At present more than 6 million jobs depend on trade between the US and Mexico, and it is yet to be seen how this will impact the economy of the US, and more so, global economic growth.Chelsea LotzChelsea Lotz is a writer and commentator