PRISCILLAH Kobane was named Miss Confidence 2017 during an event that was held in Harrismith last weekend.The purpose of the pageant was to break the mentality that pageants are only for petite girls and to embrace full-figured women. We were judged based on how we walked and how we carried ourselves.Most people perceive being full figured as a bad thing, which it isn t. The judges were looking for someone who carried themselves properly and took pride in their body, Priscillah said.She said she grew up being called so many names and being judged through her body and that made her avoid the spotlight at all costs. My friends are very petite, which made my confidence drop even more because when I was with them they would get all the compliments and I wouldn t.When this competition was brought to my attention I totally disregarded it because I feared what people might say but my family and friends encouraged me to do it even some of my teachers, she said.Kobane ended up signing up but she didn t know how many girls signed up and she only got to meet them an hour before the pageant. I was up against such beautiful curvaceous women.I was one of the biggest girls there and I almost left literally 10 minutes before the pageant started because I was so nervous and I just didn t have the confidence to go up on stage in front of people, against so many girls who were so beautiful, she said.She considers herself as a humble, hard-working, loving and smart young woman. I m ambitious, dedicated and determined.I know what I want and I do what s needed to get it. I m just an ordinary girl trying to make a change and leave a mark on this world, she said.She said the pageant taught her that beauty comes in all sizes and that we shouldn t let society tell us who is beautiful and who isn t. I m not going to lie and say now I m super confident. Confidence isn t something that you get overnight but I must say the pageant really helped me.The speakers at the pageant helped me to realise that its okay to be full figured and be proud about it.The only way I m going to have confidence is when I stop letting the opinions of people dictate my life or define who I am. So I am working on myself, for myself by myself. Priscillah wants to start an annual event and culture of learning how to appreciate full-figured women. I believe this will be relevant especially among young girls because I experienced low selfesteem while growing up due to my body size and I don t want any other girl to experience that. -GRACE BOLOWANA