SAFA is preparing to submit an official protest to Fifa over the behaviour of the Senegalese delegation during their World Cup qualifier tour two weeks ago. This follows a successful protest to the world s football governing organisation by Senegal over the decision by Ghanaian referee Joseph Lamptey to award a penalty to South Africa in their qualifier match which they won 2-1 against the Lions of Teranga in Polokwane two weeks ago.The referee was heavily criticised for his performance in that match, especially the penalty incident in which replays showed his decision on the handball was incorrect. Lamptey has since been banned for three months by CAF. But Safa intends to file a dispute of their own, protesting the manner which the Senegalese officials and players behaved during and after the match. We are also going to protest the treatment we received from them (Senegal), which was not good, Safa CEO Dennis Mumble said. There are a number of things that we were not happy about, in the manner which they behaved on the day of the match. And we are going to address that issue with Fifa. I am in communication with Fifa about that. And we want to put our piece (input) to it because I m not happy with the scene that we saw there at the stadium. Mumble said they would continue to investigate other incidents which took place on the day to add to their protest. Senegal officials surrounded the referee at half time and after the final whistle as they were not pleased with his decision to award Bafana a penalty. You will probably hear more about it once we have some kind of engagement with Fifa on that issue, Mumble said. Bafana are joint leaders in their group with Burkina Faso with four points from two matches. I think we are fine with where we are because we are sitting on top of group, it is only goal difference which makes us a little bit behind in second place, Mumble said. We are also pleased that we can virtually take the next nine months to get ourselves even better prepared to go and get that dream of 2018. We go to Senegal in our last match and hopefully we would have done our job by then so we are comfortable with four points right now. nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza