ALL roads lead to Walter Sisulu Square in Kliptown, Soweto for the second annual Colour in Soweto, a music and lifestyle experience. The show takes place tomorrow evening with a lineup that features an array of SA s leading DJs, artists and musicians, set to take to the stage for a musical feast like no other right in the heart of SA s iconic township.These include big name DJs such as Kent, Black Coffee, Lulo Cafe, Speedsta, Shimza, Mo Flava, Naves and Sphectacula and jaw-dropping live performances from Babes Wodumo among others.Metro FM and deep house maestro Lulo Cafe, real name Sikhululo Maliwa, promised music lovers a good time throughout the day with a variety of music genres catering for the diverse musical tastes of Soweto music lovers.Organisers said the show was meant to unite not only people from all walks of life, but also the many splashes of colour, celebrating the diversity of South Africa with the very best in SA hip hop, house and kwaito. It is going to be a great day for music lovers as I will be bringing my brand of deep house which will feature elements of Italian house music which I picked up during some of my travels there, he said. Reflecting his new affinity with the Italian way of life, Lulo Cafe titled his new album, XXXV/trentacinque or 35 in simple numeric terms. I recently turned 35 and I am celebrating that milestone with my new album, while also experimenting with new sounds, as I try to expand my music brand. Throughout his journey as a DJ, Lulo Cafe positioned himself as an aficionado of quality, cutting-edge house music and as a selector of note with his sets varying from down-tempo lounge, deep soulful grooves and funky selections. Over the past 10 years since making his big break in the SA house scene, the Eastern Cape-born spinner stamped his authority as a deep house aficionado in a number of compilation albums. However with XXXV, the venerated spinner and radio personality has gone all out in bringing his influences in an album containing original composition, working with young DJs and notable house music vocalists. The album is inspired by my travelling experiences. I went into the studio with a number of young producers and also established producers to produce XXXV. People are going to love my new sound as it is still Lulo Cafe as you know him but with experimental sounds. There are a few collaborations with big names such as KB and house vocalist Lady Zama, he said.-siyabongas@thenewage.co.za