I have recently been redeployed as the political head of the department of agriculture and rural development. Out of my interaction with stakeholders within the agricultural sector, I have come to realise the importance of our youth to get involved in the farming industry.We are also hard at work assisting our farmers with animal feed as drought is upon us and they are the most affected.ANC stalwart Oliver Tambo once said the country that does not take care of its youth has no future. The truth is also that the farming industry is made up of old people and mainly whites.Sadly, youth of all colours still have a negative outlook towards farming as something they can do for a living. Perhaps this is the reason why many rural households continue to buy some basic vegetables such as tomatoes and potatoes that they could easily grow in their back yards. Apart from saving money, such a practice would contribute a great deal to their healthy living. Dieticians always tell us that we are what we eat. So, eating healthy will lead to a healthy lifestyle.Opening the Regional Universities Forum held recently in Cape Town, Dr Nksazana Dlamini Zuma, who is also the chairperson of the African Union. said that institutions should invest in people, particularly the youth .She further said universities should be taken to communities, particularly those involved in agriculture, for the purpose of lifting standard of living in the communities.One of the priorities of the government is rural development. This priority continues to ensure that through the government s comprehensive rural development programme, people living in rural communities are given the opportunity to overcome poverty.We also have from our outcomes approach in the medium term an expenditure framework that discusses vibrant, equitable and sustainable rural communities with food security for all.Rural communities have always been known to survive through subsistence farming.And many families have never experienced hunger and poverty.The challenges of hunger and starvation are bound to follow if we allow our youth to look down on farming as something associated with old white farmers. I know we all want cool and fancy jobs. Being hungry in a fancy car and attire is never cool because we can have all these cool and fancy jobs and still go hungry. Has anyone ever wondered as to what will happen if all these ageing farmers were to stop farming overnight?Our youth need to change their attitude towards farming and start to realise that we need their energy in farming in order to have sustainable rural communities.We have a programme in our department called Fetsa Tlala (get rid of hunger). We will continue to engage traditional leaders and youth structures in all the districts reiterating the need to go back to the basics of tilling the land for our own survival.Mapula Mokaba-PhukwanaMapula Mokaba-Phukwana is the MEC for agriculture and rural development in Limpopo