Nelson Mandela Bay municipality executive mayor Athol Trollip has encouraged all concerned with unmanageable debt to make arrangements.This comes after he announced tight credit control measures as the municipal debtors book reached R2bn in outstanding revenue. It is essentially a stringent intervention to comply with having adequate reserves which should ideally be three months, currently we have one month and nine days, Trollip said.An offset system that allowed account holders to still buy electricity tokens while their accounts were in arrears was also now a thing of the past, he said. What we are saying from today is if your account is more than 45 days in arrears, we are going to cut you off. In order to remain sustainable we must be able to ensure that we get paid for the services we provide for those who can afford to pay for it. He said if the municipality did not maximise its revenue for the services it provides, it would not have enough means to provide services for those who cannot afford to pay. Up until very recently there has been an offset system. When you go buy electricity, some of the money will be offset towards your arrears and you could buy electricity with the balance. It is no longer sustainable as it is not only poor people using that system. We ve got big companies, high energy user and even residential areas not registered under the Assistance-tothe-Poor, that are offsetting. No organisation can sustain that, Trollip said.The municipality has managed to collect R15.6m over the last two weeks, after notices of intention to disconnect were issued. Member of the mayoral committee for budget and treasury Retief Odendaal said the Coega Industrial Development Zone made an arrangement to pay it s arrears of R21m over the next six months and that it paid R6m in August. They are expected to pay another R6m this month. The department of health paid R6m last week. A notice of intention to disconnect will be issued to the Department of Education to ensure that they pay R5.7m, Odendaal said.Last month 3 400 prepaid meters were blocked in order to collect outstanding revenue valued at R17.2m and Odendaal described the tougher credit control measures as a necessary evil. We have to look after our finances, unfortunately this institution (in the past) was not tough on credit control and we now have a debtors book of more than R2bn. I want to assure the public that we are getting tough on domestic accounts, but we are also getting tough on government accounts, he said.indiphileb@thenewage.co.za