Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini yesterday challenged Save SA leader and now mining boss Sipho Pityana saying his call for the removal of President Jacob Zuma resembled the makings of a factional war.In an interview with The New Age, Dlamini questioned the mushrooming of civil society organisations calling for Zuma s head.He regards the calls from some of the country s CEOs for Zuma to go as a tool to settle political scores. We have heard CEOs signalling for the president to be removed, speaking at funerals and using them as platforms to advance political battles, Dlamini said.He said that although the calls seemed well intentioned on face value, they were aimed at advancing ulterior motives. (Those) people leading companies are well-to-do. They come wearing sheep s skin but they want to sustain their wealth by exploiting unsuspecting, people. They are exploiting the anger (that comes) from poverty, unemployment and inequality. Dlamini s comments come against the background of the ANC s national executive eommittee (NEC) meeting having resolved to back Zuma in the wake of a robust discussion over his leadership. Dlamini questioned the agenda of civil society organisations that have called for Zuma to step down. I challenge people to analyse them. Who are they, who s funding them, what is their agenda and who stands to benefit from their programme, Dlamini asked.It is for this reason that Dlamini believes that the organisations calls for Zuma to step down was doublespeak for regime change. It is possible that what we see unfolding is an agenda for regime change. To &#8230; put an alternative to the peoples movement, the ANC. It must be analysed in the context of what is happening on the continent. Yes, we are not in denial of our internal problems, but we must never lose sight of the agenda for a revolution. Dlamini said that the country s challenges could not be pinned on the shoulders of one individual. We must be careful of resting on our laurels to say that our problems will be solved by one person stepping down, he said.Dlamini said that the narrative of blaming a single leader for the ANC s challenges undermined the intelligence of the collective .He added that the alliance should focus its energy towards the realisation of the national democratic revolution. There are huge levels of inequality, let s focus on those issues &#8230; to deal with the balances of forces, who owns the means of production? BONOLO SELEBANO bonolos@thenewage.co.za