IT IS every player s dream to become a regular for their team and it is no different for Ajax Cape Town midfielder Mark Mayambela. Mayambela s career has been defined by his impact as a substitute player, winning the favour of many coaches with his off-the bench contributions. It was the same for the silky skilled midfielder at Orlando Pirates and SuperSport United, but Mayambela intends to buck the trend under the newly appointed Ajax coach Stanley Menzo.The 29 year old has been hard at work trying to win the heart of the newly appointed Dutch coach Menzo, who took over the reins from Roger de Sa after a series of poor showings under his tutelage. I am working towards getting a regular start in the team, Mayambela said. Any player wants to play and start the game. But I am grateful that I get a little bit of game time. I make sure that I do well when I m given the opportunity to play, and that is what I have been doing in the past games. The dribbling wizard believes the appointment of Menzo will help the team move up in the log despite their poor start to the season. Ajax are bottom of the log with three points after eight games. The Urban warrior and Free State Stars are the only team that haven t won a single match in the league, collecting points through draws.The international break came at an opportune time for Menzo as he will get enough time to assemble the best squad to compete in the league and upcoming Nedbank Cup. The Cape Town-based club are facing a daunting task as they prepare to take on Maritzburg United at home next weekend. Mayambela said the two-week break has helped them prepare for the Team of Choice. It s not going to be easy playing against Maritzburg. They are a good side and have good players. But we have a new coach and I believe he will help us improve as a team. We want to improve our performance and move up the log. The two-week break is helping us to adjust and adapt to the kind of football he wants us to play. At least we have had a bit of time to adjust to his style of play and doing things, he said.news@thenewage.co.za-Ntsako Mashaba