Amid all the calls to step down, under pressure Springbok coach Allister Coetzee says he will not walk away from the top job.Though he does not know yet if he will make it alive from the assessment and review that the South African Rugby Union will conduct in the coming weeks to remain the Boks coach in the next year, Coetzee said there are people who still want him to continue as coach.Former Bok coach Nick Mallett has already suggested that Saru find a new coach to take the team out of the doldrums, saying coaches who have done better than Coetzee have in the past also lost their jobs. I am contracted to Saru until 2019. There will be discussions during the review and I can only speak after that has taken place. I can understand that the supporters and the nation are disappointed, Coetzee said. I would like to make sure that when I leave there is a tangible blueprint that will show how South Africa will play going forward. There are also many fans who feel I must stay on. I am a guy who never walks away from challenges. There is a great opportunity to turn things around. There will be a policy on overseas based players that we will talk about. It is one of the biggest discussions we will have. It will give the national coach a guideline with regards to players who are based overseas, the Boks coach said.As he gets ready to fight for his job, Coetzee has given an honest assessment of his first season as Springboks coach and it is one that his bosses will not find comfort in. Disastrous, Coetzee said as he frankly described it. If there is a fitting English word, then I would go for disastrous . Sometimes things have to go really low to go upwards. Within this, I see a massive opportunity for South Africa and South African rugby. We will have six months of better planning to help the Boks bounce back in the new year. I am the first to put my hand up and take the responsibility for what happened. The players too have owned up. Finger pointing won t help. We need a proper review to address the key areas. SA rugby has to be made a priority by everyone, the Bok coach said.As part of owning up for the eight losses the 1995 and 2007 World Cup winners suffered in 12 matches this year, which also includes not winning a single match away from home, Coetzee refused to put the blame on any player. I am disappointed in our skills levels. I am disappointed in a lot of things and in my management and myself. I will never put blame on individuals. I have an idea of what will happen next year. Changes will have to be made, but I have to discuss those with Saru first. I will wait for my review, even though I don t have a date yet. It will be good not to react emotionally. Masekepe Matsebane|masekepem@thenewage.co.za