Kaizer Chiefs exit in the Telkom Knockout two weeks ago is most probably still weighing heavily on their supporters hearts. However, the pain could be healed should the Naturena side get the better of African champions Mamelodi Sundowns at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday in an Absa Premiership encounter.Chiefs may finish the year empty handed. They were booted out of the MTN8 by Bidvest Wits in August in the quarterfinal stage. But a win against Sundowns on Saturday will not only give them three points, but something the supporters can cheer about. A victory will also give coach Steve Komphela breathing space.The calls for his resignation are growing louder following the defeat to Free State Stars in the cup competition. But the going for Chiefs will not be easy. Amakhosi are facing a Sundowns side on operation catch-up due to their involvement in the CAF Champions League. In the three league matches they ve played so far, the Brazilians have won once, lost once and drawn the other match. They are perched on an unfamiliar 15th position on the log and cannot afford to lose against Chiefs, or to any other team for that matter. Downs will also be looking to bounce back to winning ways after their loss to Tshwane rivals SuperSport United two weeks ago in the Telkom Knockout Challenge.Not so long, Chiefs seemed to have found their footing, but have not been as convincing recently, failing to register a victory in their last four matches. They dropped four points against Orlando Pirates and Baroka FC in their goalless draw, and needed penalties to beat Maritzburg United in the Telkom Knockout last 16. But they will hope the Fifa international break will bring some of their mojo back as they look to getting to the form that saw them temporarily occupy the top spot on the log not so long ago.However, the positive thing going for Amakhosi is that in the league they have not conceded in their last six matches, and hopefully they will want to do so against the free scoring Sundowns. The match will also see Ramahlwe Mphahlele face his former team for the first time since he left Downs in the off-season and will be keen to get one over them. This should be an exciting game with both teams producing great football. Sundowns, as defending league champions, will try to be on the offensive to put Amakhosi on the defensive.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza