With the dust barely settled following the ANC s national executive committee (NEC) meeting, the focus has now shifted to the ministers who attempted to oust President Jacob Zuma as leader of the country.While speculation has mounted that a Cabinet reshuffle is imminent, various sources in the ANC told The New Age that Zuma will not reshuffle his Cabinet. Rather, the sources said that the ball was firmly in the court of the ministers.One source said that these ministers had no option but to resign. They cannot serve in the Cabinet. They argued on moral grounds that the president must step down. They must now practice what they preach. It is wrong for them to remain in the Cabinet, the source said. They nailed their colours to the mast when they introduced and supported the no confidence motion in the president. They must quit. Another source said that while Zuma has adopted a reconciliatory approach towards his detractors, some of his supporters have called for a harder line. You cannot humiliate the president in this manner and not expect to pay the price, the source said. For a while now these ministers have been questioning his integrity, however this is the first time they came out in the open as a bloc. The president cannot have people in his Cabinet who cannot be trusted, the source said. The president needs to get tough. These people are not indispensable, the source said.The postponement of today s Cabinet meeting is also being viewed in some quarters as a strategy to allow the implicated ministers time to consider their predicament.Zuma, who is in Cuba for the memorial service for Fidel Castro, is due to return later in the week.Another source said that the postponement of the Cabinet meeting will allow the implicated ministers to formally deliver their resignations to Zuma and to afford him time to appoint their replacements before the next Cabinet meeting.However, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe told a post NEC briefing yesterday that the party does not expect any mass resignations . When NEC members gather they are all equal. Ministers are not seen as senior members in the meeting. Everyone in the NEC spoke on the issue. Limiting it to ministers is mischievous, Mantashe said.Reflecting on the ANC s experience after its 2007 Polokwane conference when eight ministers resigned following the recall of Thabo Mbeki, Mantashe said mass resignations will have serious consequences .Deputy SG Jessie Duarte said that she wasn t aware of anyone in the Cabinet who wanted to resign.-TNA Reporters