The first day of Cosatu s crucial central executive committee (CEC) meeting began yesterday with its affiliates expecting the trade union federation to veer from its middle-of-the-road stance on challenges confronting the ANC.Speaking to The New Age yesterday, National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) president Mzwandile Makwayiba said the union would continue to dig its heels in on its views on the leadership of President Jacob Zuma. We will always present the views of our structures and members and we want Cosatu to debate the issue, Makwayiba said.He said that the ANC s spurning of Cosatu affiliates for expressing their disillusionment with Zuma were uncalled for. We are not surprised with that. Our views don t have to be the views of the ANC, but that does not stop us from raising issues. Makwayiba, making reference to the meeting between the ANC s national working committee meeting and a group of party stalwarts on their concerns with the crisis trajectory the ruling party has found itself in, said the meeting was the first step towards tackling divisions within the ANC. It s a good thing because it stops all the speculation that people are not being given an opportunity to be heard. People will present their views and the veterans will be accommodated. Communication Workers Union president Clyde Mervin said the union would urge Cosatu to debate the state of the ANC-led tripartite alliance. We are going to speak about the relevance of the alliance. The roles must be clearly set out and written down. It can t be open ended, Mervin said.He said he shared Makwayiba s sentiment on the ANC s rebuke of Cosatu affiliates for meddling in the party s internal affairs. We agreed in Polokwane and went to Mangaung (ANC elective conference) so we can t keep quiet and not make noise when its suits the ANC, that can t be correct. National Union of Mineworkers general secretary David Sipunzi said that he would not be attending the CEC meeting due to prior commitments. Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said that the federation would only discuss its political report on the last day of its threeday meeting. The political situation is the last item and it will open that chapter on the last day, Pamla said.He said, however, that the meeting between Cosatu affiliates was in full swing. He said that the federation tabled its organisation report and a socio-economic report would be discussed today. Things are going well, our affiliates are prepared to engage on issues in our programme of action. bonolos@thenewage.co.za