It does not matter whether you are rich and famous or just a boy or girl next door with the best physical attributes anybody can be diagnosed with the not so glamorous bladder incontinence.Not so long ago, Kate Winslet fans got the shock of their lives when she revealed that she had stress incontinence a condition which occurs when the muscles that control your ability to hold urine get weak or do not work.It may happen when you cough, lift something heavy, change positions, or exercise. I can t jump on trampolines any more, I wet myself, Winslet said. It s bloody awful, especially if you re wearing a skirt. Anyone can suffer from the leaky-bladder condition and, as in Winslet s case, women who have given birth can be predisposed to urinary incontinence especially in the case of a vaginal delivery. Even surgery that involves a woman s reproductive system, including removal of the uterus, may damage the supporting pelvic floor muscles. When you ve had a few children, it s just what happens, Winslet shared further during the interview. It s amazing, two sneezes, I m fine. Three, it s game over. While it tends to be more common as patients age, involuntary leaking of urine certainly cuts across all age groups and sexes, and can be seen in children and adolescents as in male adults.In older men, incontinence often stems from enlargement of the prostate gland. It can generally be associated with untreated prostate cancer. But, more often, incontinence is a side effect of treatments for prostate cancer.In South Africa, about 6.5 million women and three million men reportedly suffer from incontinence, while it is said to affect more than 10 million Americans. The South African Urogynaecology Association said the prevalence of daily urinary incontinence in black women is 17.2%, coloured women, 12.8% and white women, 13.2%.Although there are a number of ways recommended to treat bladder problems, as a first line of therapy, a health care professional may recommend techniques such as behavioural and lifestyle changes, which involves maintaining a balanced diet, engaging in daily exercise that engages your core and so on.Ways to tackle urinary incontinence Pelvic floor exercises such as kegel exercises. Kegels have been widely recommended for people who suffer from urinary incontinence. Kegels strengthen the muscles that help control the urethra. When these muscles are weak, there is no control of urine. When women suddenly have an urge to urinate they should pull in and squeeze pelvic muscles. Hold the squeeze for about 10 seconds, then rest for 10 seconds. Dr Steyn of webmd.com blog said if done every two hours at night, this exercise can stop leakage or significantly prevent it. Consuming less fluids can help. Research has shown that the fuller the bladder, the more likely accidents happen. Consuming high volumes of liquid increases the chances of an urge to urinate. May M Wakamatsu, MD, a pelvic medicine specialist advises on her blog for people to drink 6-8 glasses of water daily and cut back at 4pm. Shedding extra weight. Having extra weight increases leakage chances as it puts pressure on the bladder or the urethra, the tube leading from the bladder. Studies have shown that women who are heavier tend to have more problems, and shedding weight can help.news@thenewage.co.za