TWO men believed to be responsible for a spate of robberies in Welkom have been arrested and police are appealing to victims to come forward.Police spokesperson Capt Stephen Thakeng said the alleged thugs targeted vulnerable people, especially when they were leaving taverns. After a thorough investigation, two men aged 27 and 31, believed to be part of a group that robbed people, were arrested in Welkom CBD last week. In the recent reported incident, the complainant that he was waiting in front of a tavern last week when a group of unknown men approached him and started searching him, Thakeng said.He said the group of robbers took the victim s wallet with R400 and bank cards inside and a cellphone before fleeing on foot. Several cases of robbery where the same modus operandi was used have been reported and it is suspected that the same people who were arrested might be the culprits who have been robbing people when they leave taverns around Welkom, Capt Thakeng said.Thakeng said they were appealing to anyone who was robbed the same way to contact Welkom detective services during office hours.Meanwhile, also in Welkom, the police are searching for gunmen after two cases of murder were reported when a businessman was killed last week. Thakeng said no arrests had been made yet. In the first incident, the police were summoned to a reported shooting near a local tavern in Rheederspark in Lindsay where they found two men lying in a pool of blood in an open space.They are between 35 and 45 years old. One was wearing a grey T-shirt, brown trousers, All-Star takkies with a black and orange hat and an earring in the left ear, Thakeng said.He said it was suspected that they were from Lesotho. The bodies were still at the government mortuary in Welkom and had not yet been identified. In the second incident in Rheederspark, businessman Madimabe Petrus Tshakela, 52, was found dead about 30m from his car, Thakeng said.He said it was suspected that the tavern owner was first shot while he was still in his car because there was one hole suspected to be a gunshot at the driver s door and two cartridges inside the car. It looks like Tshakela was running for his life as he was found 30m from his BMW car, Thakeng said. He said anyone who might have information about the two cases or either of them should contact Det-Sgt Tewsin Carls on 057 391 6238 or cellphone number 072 294 9306.-BECKER SEMELA