Cosatu s 1.8 million members will act as a juggernaut of influence for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to take over the reins as ANC president at the party s elective conference next year, Cosatu s national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said.Speaking in the wake of the trade union federation s central committee meeting, Pamla said that while the union federation would not overplay its hand, as it did not have voting rights at the ANC s conference, he believed that Cosatu members who also held ANC membership cards would do well in lobbying ANC structures to shoulder support for Ramaphosa. We won t overestimate our ability, but that must not be determined by an analysis from a distance. We are one organisation that has machinery on the ground, Pamla said.He said that Cosatu would not be discouraged by the backlash from the ANC for opening the lid on the party s succession debate. We are discussing the potential president of the country. For anyone to say that we must just keep quiet on the future of our movement and the future of the country is uncalled for. While we will not be instructed by anyone we will not fall into the trap of mudslinging with the ANC, he said.Pamla s comments come against the background of a crucial ANC National Executive Committee meeting that concluded outside Pretoria yesterday.The party discussed the state of its internal affairs, including the implications of former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela s State of Capture report on the leadership of President Jacob Zuma. In making reference to the leadership of Zuma, Pamla said that the union s federation s views on the leadership of the ANC would be better left to a bilateral meeting with the party s national working committee. We need a bilateral that will be composed of the ANC National Working Committee and Cosatu s Central Executive Committee to discuss those issues. And to find a unifying position on its leadership, he said.Pamla said that while Cosatu affiliates such as the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union and the Communication Workers Union aired their vocal disapproval of Zuma, Cosatu as a collective has not reached consensus on whether the president should leave office. Affiliates did not have time to discuss it within their structures. We don t have a position on whether Zuma must fall, he said.Pamla also said that Ramaphosa s appointed panel that advised the National Economic Development and Labour Council in setting a proposed R3 500 per month national minimum wage would hear from Cosatu within the week. These recommendations are not binding. We said we are not moving from R4 500, we have not shifted from the line.BONOLO SELEBANO bonolos@thenewage.co.za