THE ANC In Gauteng yesterday described a list containing names of candidates punted for leadership positions at the party elective congress next year as factional . The party s provincial secretary, Hope Papo, denied the validity of the lists. He said the ANC s provincial working committee (PWC) condemned the lists and that ANC provincial chairperson Paul Mashatile and his deputy David Makhura distanced themselves from the matter. These lists maliciously have names of our provincial chairperson Paul Mashatile and provincial deputy chairperson comrade David Makhura. These two comrades have distanced themselves from these lists, Papo said. He said that the ANC regarded the lists as promoting a culture of slate politics, which only served to sow divisions in the ruling party ahead of its elective congress. The PWC strongly condemns the circulation of these divisive lists as a form of factionalism and promotion of slate politics. The PWC reiterates the position of factionalism adopted at the 2010 ANC national general council that those who engage in such activities are in fact undermining the organisation . Papo, making reference to the ANC s succession debate, said the province had yet to open discussions on the matter. No constitutional structure in Gauteng has started to discuss the issue of leadership for the coming 54th national conference, Papo said. Before discussing who should lead the organisation, ANC structures will first discuss our political and socioeconomic tasks and the revolution. Papo said that once the debate had been opened, the ANC would tackle the matter with the aim of ensuring that the party s most competent leaders assumed leadership roles. These discussions will be conducted in a disciplined fashion and will seek to achieve unity and cohesion. The discussions will be guided by conference resolutions, through the eye of the needle and strategy and tactics document, he said. Papo, commenting on the ANC s poor elections performance, said that the party convened numerous regional meetings to reflect on the underlying reasons behind its recent election mauling. After the August 3 local government elections, our province has convened regional meetings for branch leaders which were addressed by ANC NEC members to assess the outcomes of the elections, challenges facing the organisation and how to recover lost ground, he said. Papo said the ANC should not be consumed by factional politics. The PWC believes that listening and working with communities, rather than being fixated with divisive factional lists, is the best way to strengthen the ANC as the leader of the alliance and society. bonolos@thenewage.co.za-Bonolo Sellebano