Retired Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke told audience that Government should have done more to solve the issue of land but within the limits of the Constitution.Moseneke said this while delivering the Helen Suzman lecture on Thursday night. The fact is that we have land inequity, land injustice in this country, and we have to look it in the face and find practical steps to make sure that there is a greater spread, access, use of land and in a sensible and smart way, Moseneke said.He said South Africans can no longer take the land issue as a simple matter because that would result in an uprising around land hunger and land dissatisfaction.The retire judge further told audience that as the country, we have a collective responsibility to resolve the land injustice in the country.Moseneke&#8217;s statements follow a question that was asked by one of the attendees of the lecture who told the judge that he is planning on selling his farm and go live overseas.The farmer&#8217;s uncertainty comes after the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leaders Julius Malema told his supporters to occupy any unoccupied land they come across. Hyperlink to Malema storyMeanwhile, the Freedom Front Plus (FFP) had earlier this month filed a complaint with the ethics committee in Parliament against Malema for encouraging people to grab land.The Democratic Alliance(DA) also condemned the EFF leader&#8217;s utterances saying that it was in violation of the democratic principle.The party however believes that land reform must be sped up but emphasised that it must be done in accordance with section 26 of the constitution.During his address Moseneke also warned the audience that courts could be used as political instruments.The former Chief Justice said: we will over time, I dare to warn, over politicise the courts and thereby tarnish their standing and effectiveness in the long term.&#8221;Moseneke: Must acknowledge the inequality created by the past, and the little done by current government to remedy. #HSFLecture Helen Suzman Fdn (@HelenSuzmanFdn) November 17, 2016 Moseneke: Our Constitution tells us access to education must on a progressive basis be made greater and greater. #HSFLecture Helen Suzman Fdn (@HelenSuzmanFdn) November 17, 2016 Moseneke: Separation of powers part of substantive notion of rule of law. Vital organizing principle. Constitution enshrines SOP#HSFLecture Helen Suzman Fdn (@HelenSuzmanFdn) November 17, 2016 Moseneke validates frustration of young people in post-Apartheid SA. These are expected. Must acknowledge and address directly. #HSFLecture Helen Suzman Fdn (@HelenSuzmanFdn) November 17, 2016 Moseneke: On Fees Must Fall. Disparity exists between skills between black and white. Most of good land owned by whites and it&#8217;s unjust. Helen Suzman Fdn (@HelenSuzmanFdn) November 17, 2016&nbsp;-Sipho Jack