&nbsp;There are many different types of yoga, which cater for different needs and ailments. These offer the practitioner different benefits to improve one or many aspects of one s health.The list below focuses on the most popular types: Anusara Anusara is often described as Iyengar (a purist form of yoga) with a sense of humour. Created by John Friend, Anusara is meant to be heartfelt and accepting. Instead of trying to fit everyone into standard cookie-cutter positions, students are guided to express themselves through the poses to their fullest ability. Ashtanga Offers six established and strenuous pose sequences the primary series, second series, third series, and so on practised sequentially as progress is made. Ashtanga movements are rapid, flowing from one pose to the next with each inhale and exhale. Each series of poses linked by the breath this way is called a vinyasa. Bikram This is probably my favourite. I m a hot yoga kind of girl, and Bikram features yoga poses in a sauna-like room. The heat is cranked up to nearly 105 C and 40% humidity in official Bikram classes. Called Bikram (for inventor Bikram Choudhury), it will be a series of 26 basic yoga postures, each performed twice. Hatha By definition, Hatha is a physical yoga practice. One of the six original branches of yoga, Hatha encompasses nearly all types of modern yoga. In other words, Hatha is the ice cream if styles like Ashtanga and Bikram are vanilla and chocolate chip. Today, classes described as Hatha on studio schedules are typically a basic and classical approach to yogic breathing exercises and postures. Iyengar This is a purist yoga named after founder BKS Iyengar. Props like blocks, straps, harnesses, and incline boards are used to get you more perfectly into positions and have earned the style of its nickname, furniture yoga . Iyengar yoga is all about precise alignment and deliberate sequencing. Jivamukti A physical, limit-pushing practice that reintegrates yoga s traditional spiritual elements in an educational way for Western practitioners. Expect a theme for each class, Sanskrit chanting, and references to ancient scripture. Created by Sharon Gannon and David Life in 1984 in New York City, Jivamukti translates as liberation while living . Kripalu Kripalu is a three-part practice that teaches you to get to know, accept and learn from your body. It starts with figuring out how your body works in different poses, then moves toward postures held for an extended time and meditation. Kundalini The practice of Kundalini yoga features constantly moving, invigorating poses. The fluidity of the practice is intended to release the Kundalini (serpent) energy in your body. Weren t aware you had any? Well, just think of it as an energy supply, coiled like a sleeping snake at the base of the spine, waiting to be tapped; the practice aims to do just that awaken and pulse it upward through the body. Prenatal Yoga postures carefully adapted for expectant mothers. Prenatal yoga is tailored to help women in all stages of pregnancy, even those getting back in shape postbirth. When you keep your muscles strong through your term, they will still have the strength and energy to return to normal. Restorative Less work, more relaxation. You ll spend as many as 20 minutes each in just four or five simple poses (often they re modifications of standard asanas (poses) using strategically placed props such as blankets, bolsters and soothing lavender eye pillows to help you sink into deep relaxation. There s also psychic cleansing: the mind goes to mush and you feel brand new. Sivananda An unhurried yoga practice that focuses on the same 12 basic asanas or variations thereof every time, bookended by sun salutations and savasana (corpse pose). The system is based on a five-point philosophy that proper breathing, relaxation, diet, exercise and positive thinking work together for a healthy lifestyle. Viniyoga A highly individualised practice in which yogis learn to adapt poses and goals to their own needs and abilities. Vinyasa/Power An active and athletic style of yoga adapted from the traditional Ashtanga system in the late 1980s to appeal to aerobic-crazed Westerners. Having studied with Pattabhi Jois, Beryl Bender Birch and Bryan Kest simultaneously pioneered this westernised ashtanga on the east and west coasts, respectively. The style varies depending on the teacher. Classes called vinyasa or flow can be vastly different but in general stem from this movement and from Ashtanga as well. Yin A quiet, meditative yoga practice, also called taoist yoga. Yin focuses on lengthening connective tissues and is meant to complement yang yoga such as Anusara, a Ashtanga or Iyengar. TNA Reporter