A lack of reservoirs is causing a water crisis in the Thembisile Hani local municipality.The Mpumalanga municipality is relying on external sources.Spokesperson for the Thembisile Hani local municipality Simphiwe Mashiyane said they were spending a lot of money to buy water. We do not have our own water, we buy water from the city of Tshwane, and from Rand Water, Mashiyane said. Desperate residents have also been forced to purchase the scarce commodity from enterprising entrepreneurs cashing in on the shortages. I spend R80 a week on water, it is a problem when you are unemployed because the social grant that we get is not enough for us to buy water as well as food, a resident said.The residents are not happy with having to buy water. Mashiyane said the municipality was trying as hard as possible to get their own water. We have projects that we are busy with and we are in stage two for both of them. We are building new reservoirs and replacing old infrastructure, Mashiyane said. The municipality has medium term goals. We have 54 boreholes in our villages. They supply water. However, 17 of them are not working. A Moloto resident told The New Age that she sells water to the residents around the area because she has a borehole in her yard. We have a borehole in our yard and we can t offer the whole of Moloto free water. However, we sell it for R1 a bucket. Water shouldn t be this cheap. I am only helping out, the resident said.However, Mashiyane said the Moloto village encountered a problem since they get water from Tshwane. There have been challenges with the city not receiving enough water from its source, Mashiyane said. Mashiyane said the municipality also had water tankers for immediate intervention.In 2015 the South African Weather Service warned of severe droughts.Rand Water has announced that there will subsequently be water restrictions in and around the provinces. Lack of rainfall across the country will heighten the situation.According to Mashiyane the drought does not really affect the municipality but their main challenge is having to spend money for water to be supplied to them.The municipality spends R9m to R10m a month on water supply.Thembisile Hani local municipality is located in the Nkangala district municipality of Mpumalanga.It is a semi-urban local municipality consisting of 57 villages within which there are five established townships. The municipal council consists of 64 members elected by mixed-member proportional representation.Thirty-two are elected by firstpast-the-post voting in wards, while the remaining 32 are chosen from party lists so that the total number of party representatives is proportional to the number of votes received.CHARLOTE HLANGWANE news@thenewage.co.za