THE ANC went into overdrive this weekend to deal with factionalism ahead of the party s 2017 elective conference. The provincial blitz by the party s top brass is part of an intensive political education campaign to correct the mistakes made during the local government elections and to avoid a repetition ahead of the 2017 elective conference.ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe told a cadres forum in Mahikeng, in North West province yesterday that divisions within the provincial structures accounted for a 15% reduction in electoral support. He said that his visit was also meant to educate branches on the processes of electing a leader. We need to understand the principles that govern the party. Leaders need to go through the eye of the needle where they are subjected to rigorous organisational checks so that they emerge as true leaders of the ANC. As we go to the elective conference, let s talk principles before any names. Names must talk to the principles. People who are going to save the ANC are members in branches. If they are arrogant and naive, the ANC will die, he said. Mantashe refused to be drawn on the potential candidates to contest the party s presidency at next year s national elective conference. Asked if he would stand for any position in the party, he said he had not been nominated.Political education and leadership beyond its 2017 elective conference holds the keys to eradicating factionalism and the jockeying for positions in the ANC said deputy secretarygeneral Jessie Duarte. Duarte, who was conducting political education in the Boland region, Western Cape, told The New Age that various members of the ANC s national executive committee were calling on different regions to conduct political education. You don t just select people to serve on the NEC, she said, adding that NEC members should understand the values and ethos of the ANC as well as have leadership qualities.Treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize echoed the same message when he addressed a cadres forum in the eThekwini region in KwaZulu Natal. Mkhize cautioned supporters to be wary of lists circulated ahead of the 2017 conference. Factions must be dismantled so that we go into conference as a united ANC. We don t want leaders who are there for material gain. -Dennis Cruywagen and Obakeng Maje