Former Springbok World Cup winning winger Pieter Hendrick has blamed the recent bad results by the Springboks on the South African Rugby Union(SARU), saying the organisation has surrounded Coach Allister Coetzee with &#8216;incompetent people&#8217;.&#8220;There s a lot that Saru has to do, firstly they have to get their house in order. I think the people running Saru are amateurs, they should look to be more professional,&#8221; he said.The 1995 World Cup winner also said that SARU has a woeful planning adding that there was no planning when Allister Coetzee came in.&#8220;At first I thought Allister was the right man to take South African Rugby forward, with transformation and everything,&#8221; said Hendricks.He also saw the loss against the Italians on Saturday as a disgrace.&#8220;I don t have words to explain it. We ve never been humiliated like this before but this has come a long way. It just reflects the state South African Rugby is in right now,&#8221; Hendricks lambasted.He also made the assertion that the selection of the players is also an issue and urged stakeholders to take a look at the systems, how they want to develop.Meanwhile, SA Rugby President Mark Alexander said they are aware of the difficulties in South African Rugby. The whole of South African rugby is extremely disappointed with this year s Springbok results and deeply worrying aspects of the performances. It has not been good enough and no one is pretending otherwise,&#8221; said Alexander.Alexander said that it would be easier to lay blame at the door and look for a scapegoat, he admitted that this would be an oversimplification.He said all of us within South African rugby need to look at themselves and ask what we could have done differently in aid of the Springbok cause. Those questions will be asked at the end of the season when we will undertake a full review of the year and what new interventions may be needed to turn things around. We began that work recently with the coaching indaba. It set out to align national and Super Rugby coaches on the technical, tactical and conditioning requirements to succeed in 2017 and beyond,&#8221; the Saru President said.There also needs to be a revision of the reasons why leading players are playing overseas, according to Alexander. He mentioned that right now the main focus is on solutions and finding answers to the current problems. We have a test against Wales on Saturday and then we will review the season and spend time determining a path for the future, Alexander concluded.TNA Reporter