The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) is not convinced that former public protector Thuli Madonsela s State of Capture report was investigated with sufficient transparency and thoroughness.Briefing journalists in Johannesburg yesterday on the outcomes of the union s national executive committee meeting, Popcru general secretary Nkosinathi Theledi questioned if due process was followed in relation to Madonsela s methods of gathering information. This report is unfortunately casting aspersions on the character of the people mentioned, in particular the state president. However, it is our view that the former public protector s report was pursued to prosecute people in the public court of opinion. For instance, it is illegal in South Africa for any authority to intercept communication of any person without the permission of a judge designated to specifically do so in all interception applications, Theledi said.He said that the union believed Madonsela might have violated due process principles. We need to ask ourselves, was the proper process followed to access cellphone information of those implicated in the report? Theledi s comments come against the background of the union s umbrella body, Cosatu, saying that while it welcomed Madonsela s report and the implications it had on the relationship between Zuma and the Gupta family, the trade union federation believed that the Chapter 9 body should have broadened the investigating scope of the report.Theledi, making reference to the report s limited scope, said that while the union believed the Gupta family s alleged influence over the business of the government was not a new phenomena , Madonsela s report should have been broadened beyond Zuma and the Guptas. Our view is that there is a need for a full investigation of state capture in South Africa. Any investigation that excludes white monopoly capital in South Africa is an advancement of white supremacy. It only serves to entrench the view that only black people are corrupt and corruptible while others are portrayed as saints. We totally reject this report. Theledi shared his views on the state of the ANC s internal affairs. He said the party s woes could not be apportioned to an individual and that its leadership collective should shoulder the blame. This cannot be reduced to an individual problem. If we are to fall into the trap of thinking that by an individual resigning or being removed, our challenges as a movement will simply wither away, we would simply be blind to the nature of the problem, he said.Theledi said that Popcru regarded factionalism as the ANC s biggest Achilles heel and that threatened to undermine its integrity as a governing party. Factionalism continues to contribute negatively, with rivalries between supporters of particular local, regional or national personalities destroying the noble value of selfless service and leadership central to the ethos of the movement as we know it, he said.bonolos@thenewage.co.za