Pressure group Transform SA is demanding an overhaul of SAA’s procurement policies, saying they are an “embarrassment and demeaning to black businesses”. It came to light last week that only 2% of SAA’s budget is spent on black-owned businesses. So, from a total spend of R24bn a year, a mere R80m a year goes to buying goods and services from black-owned companies while the remaining R39.2bn goes to white-owned businesses. Transform SA is a pressure group that says it was created from an alliance of issue-based civil-society formations and Concerned Citizens of South Africa. Notable faces of the group are Adil Ntchabeleng secretary-general of Namec and Andile Mngxitama founder of Black First, Land First. In an interview yesterday, Nchabeleng said Transform SA demands that a resolution be adopted by the newly-appointed board of directors at SAA to immediately take measures to increase the share procurement spend with black owned and managed entities in SAA’s R24bn procurement budget, from the 2% to a meaningful 60% within a period not later than March 31, 2018. “We have done our research and realised there is a critical crisis of transformation at SAA. It’s time that procurement from competent black businesses must be a priority,” Nchabeleng said. He said they want a minimum of 30% of the R24bn annual budget spend by SAA to be directed to previously disadvantaged people without any compromise. The hard-talking Nchabeleng said: “Transform SA registers its shock and anger that 22 years after the dawn of a constitutional democracy, an important state-owned-company like SAA’s procurement expenditure with blacks is this minuscule. This makes a mockery of our hard-fought liberation struggle and is an affront to our Constitution.” Transform SA has called for a judicial commission of inquiry to also investigate “legacy contracts” signed before and during the tenure of SAA president and CEO Coleman Andrews, as well as contracts that they allege are continually extended with no transformation agenda. SAA chairperson Dudu Myeni last week acknowledged the national carrier needed to accelerate its transformation to accommodate the previously disadvantaged. Myeni said: “I am not very pleased with the current percentage in terms of transformation. People say that I had said out of R24bn, can’t we then give 30% to the youth of this country, to military veterans, women and people with disabilities? It has created a lot of hatred and is one of the reasons I am being attacked.” The demands of a complete makeover of its procurement processes will pile pressure on the embattled airliner after recording losses of R5.6bn and R1.5bn in the 2014-15 and 2015-16 financial years respectively. SAA has been surviving with the help of R20bn in state guarantees. SAA declined to comment yesterday. Samuel Mungadze samuelm@thenewage.co.za