As criminals become more active ahead of the festive season, motorists especially those driving along the R511 and N14 near Diepsloot and towards Hartebees have been warned to be extra vigilant of criminals.The SAPS in Erasmia has issued a warning after a spike in the number of robberies and smash and grab incidents reported along the R522 and N14 routes. At the weekend a man had his Toyota Yaris hijacked after he picked up two unknown males who were hitchhiking along the R511. As they were approaching the N14 the driver had a gun pointed at him and he was forced out of the vehicle. The suspects drove off with his car, Erasmia police spokesperson Const Tumisang Moloto said.The police have often warned motorists to be careful when giving lifts to hitchhikers. Moloto said in one reported incident, a man was robbed when he innocently picked up two females who were hitchhiking on the N14 and gave them a lift. The hikers forced the victim to stop on the side of the road following arguments and threats that he wanted to rape them. Three men then approached the vehicle and robbed the driver of his belongings at gunpoint. All the suspects including the two women fled the scene on foot. Through investigation, the police have learned that the suspects use women to lure male motorists into believing that they are stranded for a lift and the motorist is then robbed by their associates, Moloto said.Moloto said another worrying trend had emerged with a spate of robberies at Hennops River on the R511 road, where people from various churches fetch water or pray are being targeted by criminals while praying. We appeal to the public at large to avoid going to the river as the place is isolated and dangerous, Moloto said.Meanwhile, a 27-year-old and a 40-year-old suspect are expected to appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate s Court after they were arrested for possession of a stolen motor vehicle at the corner of Mooi and School Street on Monday. Police were on their routine crime prevention duties when they were stopped by a car tracker company that informed them that they were following a white VW Golf 5 reported stolen at Naledi SAPS on Sunday, Johannesburg Central police station spokesperson WO Xoli Mbele said.Ntombi Nkosintombin@thenewage.co.za