-Palesa MpapaIT IS yet again the campaign for 16 Days ofActivism of no violence against women and children.It is the ideal time to reflect on progress,achievements and challenges still faced in the effort to prevent violence against the innocent.The period presents an opportunity to critically consider the position of women and girls in society,their state of security, safety and freedom in a democratic South Africa. The year 2016 began with collecting scarystatistics of this systemic violence.On New Year s Day Zestah September was allegedly brutally killed and maimed by her boyfriend. He spent New Year s Day with her family and also helped the family search for her. Amber Amour was allegedly raped by a friend while sharing a shower with him and she was blamed for sharing a shower with him. The appeal in the murder case of Reeva Steenkamp was a bad precedent on matters of violence against women. The matter of Phindile, a People Opposing Women Abuse (Powa) client, whose case dragged in court for over 10 years did to bring a judgment to deter partner violence.Young women at our universities are vulnerable as the Fees Must Fall struggle continues. They are kidnapped, raped and slain within the premises of the institution that are assumed to be safe. Schoolchildren are also included in sexual violence statistics, often perpetrated by male relatives, making it difficult for them to report these attacks or even be believed when they do.Nothing significant seems to have been done to ensure the protection of women and children. The high number of brutal killings of women are alarming and this raises concern as to where the problem is.Despite our legal framework, can we only attribute this violence to the improper implementation of the laws against gender violence?Can it be the attitudes of the law enforcementagencies when dealing with violence against women and girls? Can this be owed to our history of conflict during the apartheid era? Are all responsible sectors doing enough? Do we need to rethink our strategies once again?Are we to blame our communities (that we are part of) for normalising violence against women? It is interesting to note that the key question arises from the subject of domestic violence, an area that has been researched to find the causes and preventative measures to address the problem.Some of the recommended preventative measures from the studies were implemented, monitored and evaluated with an intention of bringing about change. However, the statistics of domestic violence keep on rising.Women continue to lose the sense of security that they used to have when they are engaged in intimate relationships; rather an intimate relationship now seems to be a death risk.Are love affairs the problem? One of the key challenges in preventing violence against females is the funding shortfall.In 2017 the campaign strongly needs to emphasise the need for sustainable financing for efforts towards the fulfilment of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Frameworks such as these, which include the specific target of ending violence against women and girls offer promise.However such initiatives need adequate funding in order to make a real difference. The UN secretary-general s call for the 16 Days of Activism against gender-based violence is raise money to end violence against women and girls. This presents an opportunity to focus on sustainable financing for initiatives to address violence against women.While we reflect upon the question, it is important for women in intimate relationships to break the cycle of abuse. We need to be on the lookout for any signs of abuse that our partners may exhibit.For any dangerous weapon to be used against you some day, it will have certainly begun at a stage where the abuse seemed moderate and tolerable. We need to act on it immediately and not ignore it. The law is also there for us to utilise to our advantage, but we all need to make a decision to break the cycle of abuse and speak out to bring about change.-Palesa Mpapa is the legal and advocacy manager at People Opposing Women Abuse (Powa).