Noko Matlou has ruled out playing as a striker for Banyana Banyana in the future, preferring now to play in a defensive position.The 31 year old was moved from forward to play as a defender under coach Vera Pauw, but following the appointment of former Banyana captain Desire Ellis, there was a belief that she would be moved back to the striker position.But she says she is no longer interested as she feels she is now settled playing as a defender. I think I have adjusted well at the back but people just keep on asking me because they want to see me playing as a striker. But I m fine at the back, Matlou said. I do miss playing up front but I know with the players that we have, they can take the team forward because they have what I had in the past. I think they will score more goals, especially Thembi Kgatlana, she will do well. Matlou scored many goals for Banyana while playing as a striker, but she feels she cannot cope with the pressure of having to score regularly for the national team. Even coach Ellis came to me and asked if I want to play as a striker or if I m fine at the back. I told her that I m fine at the back because I have adapted. Matlou also feels that they are more of an attacking side now than they were under previous coach Pauw.Banyana impressively beat Egypt 3-1 in their international friendly last month as part of their preparations for the CAF Women s Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon later this month.Under Pauw, she feels they were more of a defending team than going forward. There is a difference between Ellis and Pauw because now you can see from the game we played against Egypt that we were attacking more than before. With the previous coach we were more defending. Now everyone has the freedom to play. We know what we are capable of and the coach gives us that freedom to express ourselves. Banyana will begin their Nations Cup against Zimbabwe on November 19, before they meet hosts Cameroon three days later and Egypt in their final group match on November 25. Neville Khozanevillek@thenewage.co.za