Coach Shakes Mashaba would be the first to admit Bafana Bafana rode their luck against Senegal and such a bout of fortune might not last them through the World Cup qualifying journey.South Africa go into tomorrow s friendly against Mozambique on the back of a 2-1 win against Senegal, through goals from Thulani Hlatswayo and Thulani Serrero, that leaves them second in Group D, level on four points with Burkina Faso, who held Bafana to a 1-1 draw in Ouagadougou last month.Either side of that result there has been speculation over Mashaba s future as the national team coach.Mashaba struggled through the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers, his regime appearing to be precarious after he failed to secure South Africa a place at the biennial football showpiece in Gabon.They may not be soaring through the World Cup qualifiers, but Bafana have seemingly found some strength in continuity.The win has gone a long way towards keeping South Africa s hopes for Russia alive as well as keeping Mashaba in the job.The true significance of a somewhat fortuitous win, however, would be realised when Bafana resume their qualifier campaign, starting with a visit to Cape Verde on August 28.They will then host the islanders in a return match on September 22 and Burkina Faso on October 2 before they wrap up their campaign with a daunting trip to Senegal on November 6. It s a job well done against Senegal, we did very well to defend the goals, Mashaba said. And at least we go into the break of the fixtures with confidence. We are concerned about the break. When we qualified for Afcon 2015 we were playing back-to-back matches on a Saturday and then again on a Tuesday. Now it s four months without playing. But we can only hope most of the payers we select get game time at their clubs. That will ease the problem. We came knowing what to expect. We knew they would come very strong at us. We discussed that they were strong on the flanks we spoke about long balls into the box and that s exactly what happened. What worries us is the question of the last 10 to 20 minutes of the game. We always play with a reverse gear. And it s not an easy thing to sort out because at that time everybody wants to defend. Qualifying for the World Cup is no easy feat, not by any stretch of the imagination.Without the Africa Cup of Nations finals to prepare for, Bafana are set for a long international break.Kgomosto Sethushakgomotsos@thenewage.co.za