Banyana Banyana captain Janine van Wyk feels the experience the team gained at the Rio de Janeiro Olympics in August will be vital when they kick off their CAF Women s Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) campaign in Cameroon on Saturday.Though Banyana did not have a good campaign in Rio, they were knocked out in the group stages, Van Wyk believes there were some positives which they will carry into the Afcon. Banyana are in the same group as host Cameroon, Egypt and Zimbabwe and are favoured to advanced to the semifinals. I think we have the players to win the tournament this time, Van Wyk said. I mean if you look at the players we have at the squad, a bulk of experienced players who played in Rio and in the 2012 London Olympics and those players are still here. So we have the experience to do that and we ve shown what we are capable of in Rio playing against top countries. We showed it against Sweden when we lost 1-0 and when we drew against Brazil, the only thing that is lacking now is putting the ball in the back of the net. Banyana s preparations for the tournament are well on track following friendly victories against Zimbabwe and Egypt, who they will meet in the group stages. And Van Wyk believes those victories showed how ready they are for the tournament. Looking at the squad, I believe in every player. We know what the qualities are and we have new blood in the team which will give us a little bit of energy going forward. They are hungry to succeed. Hopefully for me this time, I will get a gold medal, I have silver and the bronze. We ve not lifted the trophy yet and that s something we feel it is possible. The 29-year-old defender also feels that with Desire Ellis in charge, they will finally reach their dream of winning the Afcon. We know what kind of coach she is and we also had a close relationship before she came into the Banyana set up. We have faith in her and she knows what is needed for women s football and she is experienced in that sense. Hopefully she will take us to the next level and I m sure she has learnt a lot from coach Vera Pauw and we support her 100%. Banyana will start their Afcon campaign against Zimbabwe on Saturday at 6.30pm.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza