The year is 2014 and electricity supply has fallen behind.Eskom has switched off the power across South Africa in an attempt to stabilise the national grid.The mines are unable to operate, meaning that productivity levels are at record lows. Retailers and restaurants are reporting huge losses as a result of freezer shutdowns and spoiled stock.South Africa s GDP growth is hammered, falling well short of the government s target. At a time when electricity demand was at its highest recorded level, Eskom s then CEO Tshediso Matona saw no way out and warned South Africans to get used to living in the dark for the foreseeable future.Then in April last year Brian Molefe stepped in to save Eskom as he did at Transnet in 2011. In the year and a half since Molefe has been acting as CEO of Eskom, South Africa has seen an astounding turnaround. The company has celebrated more than 450 days without load shedding and has even seen a 10.5% revenue hike year-on-year as a result of increased power exports to our neighbours.By all accounts, the story of Molefe s takeover of Eskom has been one of success both for the company and for the South African economy, keeping all of us afloat and the lights on. Yet on November 3 this same man was reduced to tears while responding to allegations of corruption made by former public protector Thuli Madonsela s State of Capture report.Madonsela s report is well intentioned, but the side effects of its publication include the media hysteria (somewhat akin to a lynch mob) that has been unleashed on Molefe without verifying the truth behind his reported actions. Madonsela s report states that there had been 58 phone calls exchanged between Molefe and Ajay Gupta and that the Eskom CEO had visited the Saxonwold area on 19 occasions during the period in which Oakbay was looking to buy one of Eskom s coal suppliers.I take issue with the way in which Molefe has been accused. The fact of the matter remains that we do not know whether or not these interactions took place. And if they did, we do not know what was discussed during these calls and visits, nor do we know what perspectives Molefe sought to raise in his dealings with the Gupta family.The reason that we do not know the answers to these questions is because no one has actually asked Molefe or Eskom what happened. Speaking to the press, Eskom chairperson Ben Ngubane has insisted that Madonsela s accusations are merely speculative and that all of the company s transactions are reasonable.Molefe himself goes further, stating that Eskom had agreed a date with Madonsela to discuss the company during the report s compilation but that she cancelled the meeting, removing her opportunity for the report to best reflect actual events. Like it or not, Molefe s unprecedented turnaround of Eskom and therefore our national economy, is now associated with the word corruption.Even if Eskom s intended judicial review of the report is fruitful, there has been enough negative association in the media to follow Molefe around forever. This series of events and trial by media are not what South Africa should be aiming for.Our Constitution is supposed to ensure every citizen s right to a fair trial in a legal court, but it seems that it does not extend to the court of public opinion. Other countries have in place strict contempt of court rules to prevent the scurrilous reporting in which freedom of expression takes precedence over fair judgements.If there have been underhand dealings by Molefe, I would rather that a court make that call than a biased group of social media users. I m also saddened that few if any progressive voices have spoken out in support of Molefe for trying to stop the apartheid-era cost-plus coal deals enjoyed by four of South Africa s biggest mining companies.The 40-year deals Molefe is trying to curtail were negotiated by the National Party to create jobs for whites on mines and enrich mining companies at the expense of the power utility and unsuspecting electricity consumers. Why do I suspect this is the main reason Molefe is being vilified? We must remember that Mandonsela s report is inconclusive.To view Molefe as complicit in state capture at this point, to see him crucified in the press and online, without affording him the opportunity to respond unjustly undermines the reputation of an honourable man who twice saved two parastatals and our country from ruin.It goes against everything I thought we as South Africans stood for.Moegsien Williams, Editor-in-Chief of The New Age