SOON-TO-BE mum Blac Chyna came out guns blazing against American television personality Wendy Williams after the talk-show host made distasteful comments about her relationship with Rob Kardashian.As usual the talk show host took a swipe at celebrities during the Hot Topics segment of her popular television show, The Wendy Williams Show, with the latest titbits in celebville.This time the 52-year-old host addressed one of the most talked about couple and said Blac Chyna was taking advantage of Kardashian s wealth. Williams went on to say the soon-to-be father s confidence took a knock and he has since transformed from being the heartthrob that he was during Keeping Up With The Kardashians days to an overweight insecure man.She further said that no woman like Blac Chyna could be attracted to someone like Rob. It s not even about Rob being overweight, it s about Rob s lack of confidence. I really do love Rob. He seemed to be a different kind of guy during the early days of Keeping Up With The Kardashians. Williams said: She s taking full advantage of everything. I m glad she s not my kid. Oh, she s not attracted to him. Chyna let Williams and the whole social media society know exactly what she thought of her in a long Instagram post. Wendy.. Wendy.. Wendy&#8230;. you lost your mind? How dare you speak on me, my fianc and my mum like you were at the Christmas table with us?! I find it so funny how you love to talk about Rob and his insecurities like at a point in time you wasn t a fat 400 pound ass b**ch on the radio, the 28 year old ranted.The soon-to-be Mrs Kardashian took a dig at the show host s marriage, insinuating that the 52 year old s husband is a woman basher. You telling him to put some some bass in his voice? You want him to be like Kevin? You want Rob to put a fist upside my head next, right? You want him to be like your husband? Rob is my man! mine! I love him for who he is which is why we are together. Therefore it doesn t matter what you Think . Chyna vent-TNA Reporter