The future economic trajectory of the world would largely be determined by cities and the development paths that they choose.This was said by Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille at the World Energy Cities Partnership annual general meeting in the city council chamber yesterday.It was fast being recognised that cities, as opposed to nation-states, were the important drivers of economic growth in the world, she said. The future economic trajectory of the world will largely be determined by cities and the development paths that they choose. I therefore firmly believe that more power needs to be devolved down to a local level and that cities need to have access to all the levers necessary to drive growth and development in their region. De Lille said the increasing role of cities in driving economic growth was also happening against the backdrop of a rapidly evolving global energy sector.These changes in the energy sector were in turn disrupting the old institutional models of energy generation and distribution and in many cases making the utility model redundant. Last year we also saw the hugely destructive energy crisis grip our country, which plunged many parts of our productive economy into turmoil as the national monopoly utility, Eskom, was unable to secure supply. The city of Cape Town was able to mitigate the effects of that crisis to some extent by drawing on some of our own storage units during load shedding incidents, but we never want to be put in that situation again. Cape Town needed to gain greater control of its energy future and its reliance on national energy utility Eskom simply must be reduced. In order for this to happen though, the national regulatory environment must be reformed. It does not permit the city to buy electricity from independent power producers. At the same time, our customer base is starting to take control of their energy future by moving to embedded generation technologies such as solar PV. As a progressive city committed to growing our status as the green economy hub of Africa, this is certainly something we want to promote. However, our role as simply being a distributor for our national utility s electricity has to urgently change. De Lille said in the restructuring process in the city, it was their intention to move away from just being an electricity distributor to also generating their own energy.In this regard they would transfer their electricity services department out of the utility services directorate into a newly created directorate for energy and electricity. This marks an important shift in our thinking around energy, as we are gearing up the city to play a vastly different role in this space. We would like to see a market for energy open up in Cape Town, where both the city and our residents can have greater choice over how they purchase and consume energy. We will also turn to our WECP colleagues to assist in this mission. De Lille said she had written to the Minister of Energy on a number of occasions over the past year asking for her permission to begin purchasing electricity directly from independent power producers (IPPs). We have asked for what is termed a Section 34 determination in new generation capacity regulations in the Electricity Generation Act to allow us to procure solar and wind energy from IPPs. In terms of the law, the minister must, in consultation with the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa), make a decision and up until now she has failed to do so. I seek no favours from this minister. It is about time that she does her job and performs her constitutional functions. I am tired of asking and I am now in the process of instituting court proceedings against her. 701198-TNA Reporter