THE University of Johannesburg (UJ) is becoming one of the country s most attractive tertiary institutions for matriculants, having received 126000 applications for its 10 500 first-year spaces for next year.UJ registrar Prof Kinta Burger said they were impressed with the interest shown by matric pupils. With about 55000 students bustling through the gates of its four campuses, UJ has become the university of choice for many working class, first generation students, producing an average of 12 200 graduates annually, Burger said.She said the university has relationships with prestigious universities globally and has world-class programmes and facilities.Burger said that UJ had a record number of students graduating this year and there was also a new record high in its undergraduate module completion rates. The university s 2015 performance was even more impressive given the challenges that South African universities have been experiencing over the past two years and all indications are that both the undergraduate module completion rates and overall graduation levels will be as good in 2016, if not better. More than 50 000 students are expected to sit for their final exams at the institution from this weekend until December 6 and Burger believes that students are ready to write despite disruptions experienced during the 2016 #FeesMustFall campaign. Universities have experienced serious challenges in the last few months with tackling issues of the high price of university education especially for the poor. Some individuals and groups sought to exploit the legitimate objective as they set out to disrupt university life and the academic programme. UJ was one of the few universities to continue with its academic programme without interruption. Burger said the safety and security of staff, students and visitors were and would remain the institution s primary priority. It is imperative that we ensure the conditions are conducive for effective learning, teaching and research as expected of a university and the uninterrupted continuation of the academic programme, including the current examinations, he said. This will allow our graduating students to do so as scheduled and to persevere in making meaningful contributions to the economy. &#8211; BATANDWA MALINGO