The Gamtooz Irrigation Board (GIB) has called on Nelson Mandela Bay residents to be increasingly vigilant and sparing in the use of water as the region s largest supply dam levels were dropping rapidly due to the heatwave. This comes at a time when the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality continues to call on residents to use water sparingly and observe water restrictions.Kouga Dam, which is managed by GIB, is at 63.1% capacity and, because of the prevailing weather conditions, the level is likely to drop rapidly. Financial and human resources director for GIB Rienette Colesky said that since its establishment in 1991, the organisation had been responsible for supplying water to 250 farms with a combined surface area of 7 400ha. The operation also serves the Kouga municipality (Patensie and Hankey) and Nelson Mandela Bay.The government had previously introduced a 15% reduction in consumption gazetted by the Minister of Water and Sanitation. Because the water usage from the dam has a direct impact on economic activities in the Gamtoos Valley, it is vital to find the right balance between consumers needs and sustainable food security, development and conservation, Colesky said.She said that in modern agriculture, responsible water management was essential. The Gamtoos Valley is known as the pantry of the Eastern Cape. With agri-tourism and farming activities in the valley ranging from citrus and vegetables to dairy and livestock, water is important to everyone and its conservation must be seen as a priority. The board will fulfil its responsibility in this regard, Colesky added.She said that GIB had increasingly become involved in the Department of Environmental Affairs natural resource management programmes. This, she said, had been going on since 1999 with its focus on conservation projects such as Working for Water, Working for Land, and Working for Forestry. Our track record in successfully facilitating these projects and the commitment of the implementing teams has, since 2000, led to a considerable annual increase in the GIB budget from the department. Colesky said the 44 projects in which the GIB was involved in were aimed at restoring the balance of nature, creating jobs, alleviating poverty and stimulating the local economy. She said a survey indicated that 10000 employment opportunities had been created in the Gamtoos Valley when farmers relying on irrigation received their full allocated water quota. With every 10% reduction in the water quota, 1 000 job opportunities are lost, GIB chief executive Pierre Joubert said, explaining that although the board did not have a say in the water quotas for consumers, recommendations had been made to the Minister of Water and Sanitation who would make the final decision.provinces@thenewage.co.za