THE number of homeless in South Africa could have doubled in the past six years due to rising levels of unemployment and poverty.The Department of Social Development (DSD) said there were no accurate statistics about the number of homeless people living in the country.However, estimates are that there are about 400 000 with out a proper roof over their heads. A census conducted in 2010 showed there were about 200000 homeless people living in metros and rural areas, including adults and children.Gauteng had the highest number of homeless people, followed by Western Cape. The DSD in Gauteng said it subsidises three shelters in and around Joburg intended to rehabilitate and reunite homeless people with their families. The department subsidises shelters for homeless persons above the age of 18, who are seeking employment after an assessment is done by a social service practitioner, a field worker or an organisation that refers the homeless adult. The shelters provide accommodation from 1-12 months and also assist with reunification services of residents with their families during this period, the department said.Strabane Shelter and Immaculata in Johannesburg each have a capacity of 100 people. Tudhope, also in Johannesburg, takes 21 people.The department said in some instances, homeless people absconded and ultimately withdrew from programmes it provided.The New Age spoke to two homeless men in the Johannesburg CBD who said the stigma they faced pushed them away from such facilities. Sometimes we meet people who are disgusted by us because of the situation we live in right now. They assume we re all thieves or drug addicts but I m here because I lost my job and have nowhere to go, Vusi, 42, who has been living on the streets since 2013, said.Vusi was a plumber and arrived in Johannesburg from Port Elizabeth in 2012 to work for a plumbing company. He worked for a year and lost his job after new administrators took over the company in March 2013.Vusi s friend, Themba, 41, who he met on the streets, hails from Stanger in KwaZulu-Natal and has been living on the streets for 15 years. I m asthmatic and I think I got it on the streets because no one has a history of asthma in my family, Themba said.Vusi and Themba say they are constantly judged because of their appearances and are victims of verbal abuse. They make an average of R1 200 a month from begging. People are sceptical about giving us money because they think we will use it for nyaope, which is not true, Vusi said.The duo said they had been victims of crime while living on the streets. They also claimed the Johannesburg metro police constantly harassed them.Vusi said he had lost his ID when the police took his blankets and said he could not afford to get a new one. The money I make is too little for me to get a new ID. I sometimes make R40 and from it I have to buy food and cigarettes. Vusi makes some extra cash by recycling plastic bottles and cans while Themba sells cigarettes.Johannesburg city by-laws prohibit the homeless from sleeping on the streets or in parks. There are shelters where the homeless can spend a night.-LESLEY TSHAMANO