Atleast 286 million paper records in the department of Home Affairs will be digitised in the next two years.The department said it will be moving from a paper-based department with all the accompanying inefficiencies, slow processes, security risks and opportunities for corruption, to a digital department which will increase efficiency, speed and security.Yesterday, Minister of Home Affairs Malusi Gigaba together with the statistician-general of South Africa, Pali Lehohla, launched the digitisation of home affairs civil records.Gigaba said most of these were records of births, marriages, deaths, ID applications, naturalisation and permitting, dating back to the late 1800s. Not only does public administration depend on these records, but they have immense historical value. They include 110 million birth records, which carry records of generations and can be used to construct family trees. Digitising these records mean we will be able to access records quickly. Transactions, which took weeks, will be completed for clients on the spot, he said.Gigaba said digital records provide for increased security and auditability of documents. About 5.8 million birth records are to be digitised per year, records will be indexed by ID number for easy retrieval and electronic records can be accessed by more than one person simultaneously. This eliminates the reliance on individuals for knowledge as the document is accessible by multiple staff, he said. Lehohla said the idea of leaving no one behind starts with this project. In 2001, when we started to digitise the records, we had 10 scanners. The system will alleviate corruption and bribery, he said.The department said due to the legacy of apartheid, democratic South Africa inherited an appalling, fragmented and manual-based system of records management.Only records for whites were properly managed and filed. However, South Africans have already seen a glimpse of modern, digital future and experienced its benefits when applying for smart ID cards and passports through eHomeAffairs.PETER RAMOTHWALApeterr@thenewage.co.za