Hundreds of adoring fans, colleagues, friends and family turned up at the Durban City Hall to pay their final respects to the late veteran DJ Nat Cool Cat Gumbi.The 64-year-old former UkhoziFM radio personality was laid to rest on Saturday at Stellawood Cemetery.Gumbi passed away on Monday at his home in Queensburgh, Durban following a short illness.Gumbi is survived by his wife, Zodwa, and their four children, Thulani, Nkanyezi, Thabisile and Khanyisile. Speaking on behalf of his children at the funeral, Molly Mbhele, said their father s death came as a huge blow. He said Gumbi was always there for them whenever they needed him. It is so hard to accept that you are gone, but we know that your spirit is within us and you ll always be with us. You were not only our dad but you were ubaba wesizwe (father of the nation) and umalume wodado (uncle to kids). You were also a pillar of strength, a teacher and advisor, a mentor and most of all a good grandfather, Molly said.Gumbi left radio at the peak of his career to join the department of transport in 2004. He worked at the radio station from 1978 to 2004 and was involved in the establishment of various shows during that period.He became a household name deejaying a weekend children s programme called Ukhozi loDado. He also presented a graveyard slot, Isigungu, which drew its audience largely from truck drivers and created awareness of road safety and other social issues.Award-winning rapper OkMalumKoolKat created his stage name from the love of the DJ.The Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Bheki Cele, also applauded Gumbi s ability to reach out to children. He said the programme should be filled with educational content. That content should not be lost because it s not context but content, to see how children are brought up. Millions of kids listen to that programme and that goes a long way. Meanwhile, Ukhozi FM station manager Bhodloza Nzimande said the innovative idea of having a kids show originated from Cool Cat himself.He said the continuation of Odado as a programme was proof of the powerful influence and legacy left behind by Gumbi. He also had a hand in producing Ukubhedu hlelo because he is the one that started pranking people on air and other stations followed suit, he said. SABCSibongiseni Maphumulosibongisenim@thenewage.co.za