Standard &amp; Poor s (S&amp;P), Fitch and Moody s are expected to touch down in South Africa for their country ratings review next week.High on their boxes to tick will be economic growth, political risk, the balance of payments, business confidence and inflation. Any or all of these factors could plunge the country into junk (sub-investment) status. This will be a second visit as these ratings agencies representatives were here early in March to assess the extent to which government policy can stabilise the economy and will do the same thing next week. S&amp;P and Fitch have South Africa pegged at BBB , one notch above subinvestment grade, while Moody s has the country hanging at two notches above sub-investment grade but has placed South Africa on review for a downgrade. Junk bonds have a higher risk of default because of an uncertain revenue stream or a lack of sufficient collateral. When downgraded, it will cost the South African government more to borrow money on global capital markets, and that will also impact on businesses. A downgrade by Moody s would put its credit rating in line with that of the other two major agencies, Fitch and Standard &amp; Poor s, if their verdict is unchanged. The national Treasury expects the economy to expand by 0.5% this year, down from a target of 0.9% set in February. The forecast is more similar to that of the Reserve Bank. On Tuesday, during the Association of Black Securities and Investment Professionals (Absip) 2016 annual conference held in Johannesburg, Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas warned SA s borrowing costs could triple if credit ratings agencies downgraded the country to junk. The country s debts both from local and international credit providers is now sitting at a whopping R2 trillion and by the end of these year about R167bn in interest will be paid to service the cost. South Africa s borrowing costs would likely double or triple if ratings agencies downgraded the country s debt to subinvestment grade next month, Jonas said. He made it clear debt servicing costs were the highest growing item in October s medium-term budget and along with low growth would force the government to cut welfare spending. Two days after, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan said for the country to avoid a downgrade, South Africans should do their best ahead of the rating agencies arrival next week. On Wednesday, the SA Reserve Bank signalled weak economic growth and political risk as key factors likely to topple the country s investment grade credit rating. Prof Raymond Parsons, from NWU School of Business and Governance, said this week SA must do what was necessary to get its house in order and avert a credit rating downgrade at the end of the year. A bigger, stronger and better economy is what SA must now secure. Junk status will complicate the new challenges faced by SA. Given the heightened uncertainties in the global economic outlook strengthens the need for SA to urgently implement the necessary structural reforms and improve its growth and employment prospects as soon as possible, he said. bernards@thenewage.co.za