WITH South Africa having started day four in the early hours of this morning in control of the second Test against Australia in Hobart, the man who helped the Proteas to that good position overnight cautioned that there was lots of work ahead to win the match.Quinton de Kock, who scored his second Test century and shared a sixth wicket partnership of 144 with Temba Bavuma yesterday, said it was important to break Australia s overnight unbeaten 42 run stand between Usman Khawaja and captain Steve Smith. At the close of yesterday s play, Australia still needed 120 more runs to make South Africa bat again.De Kock, whose second Test century was the highlight on the rain-affected third day, teamed up with Bavuma (74) in a record 144-run sixth-wicket partnership to give the Proteas the upper-hand. We are confident but it s not going to be easy, De Kock said. The Aussies are batting really well on that wicket. We are going to have to see what happens tomorrow (today). Usman is batting exceptionally well, he has a good game plan and Steve Smith as always is contributing to the team. They are only two wickets down with a lead of 120 or so, so there is still a lot of work ahead of us but we are still fairly confident. De Kock said he was satisfied to have contributed to the Proteas cause. As a player, I always take a lot of satisfaction when contributing to the team in any match or any format. I am happy with what we have achieved but the game has only just gone past halfway, we still have a lot to do. Australia look determined in their second innings, there is a lot to play for. De Kock s role and impact in the lower-order has been compared to that of former Australian wicket-keeper batsman Adam Gilchrist because of his attacking nature. I don t try to be like him (Gilchrist), that is just the way I play. I don t see myself like him, I just see the ball and hit it. I have my own game plans and that s the way I like to play. Some days I can get off to a good start and keep a good momentum for the team and some days I am going to have to grind it out. mahlatsem@thenewage.co.za-Mahlatse Mphahlela