The migrant community plays a significant part in the economic vibrancy of the central business districts (CBDs)of major metros.With the advent of massive malls in areas such as Sandton, East Rand, Southgate and northern suburbs, the CBD in Johannesburg ran the risk of becoming a white elephant.The same could have been the fate in Durban, Bloemfontein and to some extent Cape Town without the financial injection of migrants into these less attractive areas.However, through the massive interests from Chinese, Somalis, Indian and Pakistan migrants, the Johannesburg CBD continues to be a major contributor to the city s purse. Besides creating employment, this migrant community pays substantial rates that boost the revenues of the metros.Most people have perception that international migrants and asylum seekers are in South Africa to steal jobs and businesses from them.Research by Dr Sally Peberdy of Gauteng City-Region Observatory has shown that we need to stop assuming the informal sector is dominated by cross-border migrants, 54% were born in Gauteng, 28% moved to Gauteng from elsewhere in South Africa and 18% moved to Gauteng from another country.The research has shown that cross- border migrants are more likely to employ people in their businesses and when they do, they are likely to employ more people than South African entrepreneurs. Cross-border migrant entrepreneurs contribute to South African households by paying rent and 28% of migrants rent premises from South African individuals or companies Peberdy said.It went on to say that cross border migrants (58%) are more likely than South Africans (29%) to pay more than R1000 month. The research showed that the majority of foreign nationals who are entrepreneurs are trading legally.Caroline Skinner, senior researcher at The African Centre for Cities, speaking on World Refugee Day was quoted in Ground Up saying: Migrants make a significant contribution by servicing the needs of poorer consumers who can buy cheap goods often in appropriate quantities, at places and times of day that are convenient or have their niche demands met. Immigrants also introduce new products, business activities and opportunities and bring scarce skills like manufacturing, particularly into the township economy. Foreign-owned shops have also filtered through South African townships with two to three shops on every street corner. Most of the shops are in close proximity, making them easily accessible. They are convenient for township people as they sell goods at an affordable price.Speaking to one spaza shop owner in Kaalfontein, Ebony Park, he said he left his country of Ethiopia because of political clashes. Ethiopia has many politics and there is freedom in South Africa, I couldn t live without a job back home. I needed to make a living , he said.He said there was a perception that they were trying to take over the local businesses and steal jobs, which is not true. We are creating jobs with our shops and hire those who are unemployed to work for us, he said.Solomon Ose, an asylum seeker who works in a spaza shop in Tembisa, said he came to South Africa in 2011. It took him three months to get here because he walked from Ethiopia. The fighting and lack of employment made me leave my country and escape to this country, he said.One of the challenges they face is when they have to renew permits at Home Affairs they have to wait in long queues without getting assistance.Last year, Small Business committee chairperson Ruth Bhengu said that small business was the sector that had a potential to create jobs en masse. The country has a target of creating 11 million jobs by 2030, 80% of which will have to come from this sector. A vibrant small business sector can only result in a flourishing domestic economy, she said.DIKELEDI RAMABOPAbusiness@thenewage.co.za