SIZE queens, the verdict is in, size doesn t matter. Yes, shocking as it may seem, there is no rational link between penis size and sexual pleasure.Even as I m writing this, I have to do some mental work to undo the link for myself. It makes one ask: Where does this idea come from in the first place? As little sense as the common belief makes, it remains ingrained in many women s and men s minds that penis size determines the quality of the sexual experience.However, Prof Kopano Ratele, an expert in men and masculinity at Unisa might have some answers. In his paper, Masculinities, Maleness and (Illusive) Pleasure, he points out that the issue of size is linked to power. How does the fact that females do not have a penis, and that some males have bigger penises than others, relate to the rights of males over females, or the power of some males over others? These questions show that bodies, their parts and their dimensions, have a complicated (and at times very little) direct association with how power is exercised. Physicality may be part of the arguments circulated to support the subordination of females to males, Ratele says.Wow, that s some heavy stuff. Necessary, but heavy. This makes us question what exactly is the appeal for those who receive penetration from men, of a big penis? Does domination allure, or is this simply about pleasure and performance? So, visually, a generous penis I find more stimulating. But in practice, it can be painful and uncomfortable. Girth is nicer than length. So size does matter not too big and not micro either, Edna Chillup, who believes size matters but bigger is not necessarily better, says.Dineo Leshabane says a big penis can be quite impractical and uncomfortable to deal with. I like the idea of a big penis more than the reality. When it comes down to the act of love making, the size of the penis is of no relevance if the man doesn t know how to use it. I ve had the best experiences with average guys and some of the worst with big guys, she says.Is it all purely physical though? There may be a tendency to forget that the penis is attached to a body and the body houses a spirit with intentions and energies. Anmuy Nitram, when interviewed, provided a totally different and often missing perspective. It s not about how deep you can thrust, it s about how you enter me, with what energy or intention. It s about your attention to how I respond and how you engage with me, she says.As mentioned above, the meanings attached to penis size also circulate among men. The bigger penis symbolises the superior masculinity, more worthy of the woman s affection.This all sounds very primal and may not be relevant in a context where women are demanding greater intimacy and emotional maturity from men, particularly in relationships.The issue is one that affects males too and feeds into gendered relations between men and women. The sexual act between heterosexual men and women cannot revolve around the man s penis if we are to truly see it as a union of bodies.According to Ratele, men must also seek intimacy happiness in intimate relationships and ensure that their partners achieve orgasm .So, what can be said about the age-old size debate? Gentlemen, it is not enough to show up with a big penis and think that it s skill and capacity for providing pleasure is automatic.True power lies in intimacy and not dominance. Women demand and deserve more of you. Ladies, maybe it s time to rethink those prejudices and biases. Shoe sizes, don t mean what they used to.-Jamil Khan