She is still picking up the pieces, but getting stronger every day, Louisa Wynand says.She is the young woman whose complaint of sexual harassment has led to the suspension of ANC Western Cape chairperson Marius Fransman.The ANC national disciplinary committee (NDC) on Friday announced it had suspended Fransman for five years, following a hearing that he did not attend.Wynand said: I am relieved with the outcome of the ANC s ruling that Marius Fransman be suspended from the party. She was grateful, she said, for the professional way in which the ANC had handled the process. They really did a thorough investigation into all the allegations and the truth led them to their finding, Wynand said.She was glad that this part of the process was finalised. I am especially relieved for my family who have been my constant pillar and support structure throughout this time, she said.Wynand said no woman in this country should have to go through the abuse that she suffered. I am still picking up the pieces but I am stronger now, more than ever. My energies are now focused on the criminal investigation that lies ahead. The ANC in the Western Cape also welcomed the outcome of the NDC deliberations and expressed its confidence in that body. After almost a year of uncertainty, we are pleased that the matter has come to a conclusion, the ANC said.It thanked Fransman for more than 20 years of unbroken service to the ANC. We also thank comrade Marius Fransman s fight not only for the ANC s standing in the minds of ordinary people, but to fight for individuals facing personal setbacks. This put the ANC in great stead as a caring party. Fransman s membership, the ANC said, had been suspended for five years. We hope that in that period he can continue doing community work as he has always done and continue to make his contribution to society. The ANC said the biggest lesson to be gleaned was that more effort is needed in building relationships among our leaders . And we take this as a lesson that when our leaders address each other publicly and negatively instead of a typical home visit or call where there may exist differences, reflects a lack of deeper and meaningful relationships among ourselves. Whatever the circumstances, the comradeship, which by definition possesses an intrinsic revolutionary value to all of us, must be observed. Announcing the suspension yesterday, the NDC said discipline was the glue that held the ANC together. It said Fransman did not attend the disciplinary hearing nor did he show remorse for his conduct. There is no room in the ANC for leaders and members, irrespective of position or seniority, who show scant regard for the values and objectives of the ANC and who consciously choose to define themselves outside the organisation in breach of their membership oath. The disciplinary body also accused Fransman of deliberately misleading the public when he said he had not received documents to enable him to prepare for his disciplinary hearing. In truth he was given all the relevant documents he needed to prepare his defence, the NDC said.It found Fransman guilty on two counts of misconduct for abusing his office to obtain sexual favours and for making public statements that brought the ANC into disrepute. The NDC found both charges to be very serious and suspended his ANC membership for five years, the statement said.Dennis Cruywagen| news@thenewage.co.za