Police are investigating whether a shooting which claimed the life of a 13-year-old boy in Wesbank at the weekend was gang-related.A 23-year-old suspect has been arrested in connection with the murder of the teenage boy. He is expected to appear in the Blue Downs Magistrate s Court today.Provincial SAPS Col Andre Traut said: The circumstances surrounding a shooting incident on Sunday at the corners of Drummond and Philmore Street, Wesbank where a 13-year-old boy was fatally wounded are under investigation. A murder case was opened for further investigation and a 23-year-old suspect was arrested a few hours after the incident. Several gang related shootings have been reported in the community over the past few weeks. A week ago gang violence claimed the life of a matric pupil in Elsies River.St Andrews High School matric pupil, Cyle Goliath, was shot dead in Elsies River. He was killed on the day he was released from Tygerberg Hospital after he sustained a gunshot wound the previous week. It has been reported that he was killed because he had witnessed a friend s murder several weeks ago.In another incident, a 16-year-old girl from Elsies River High School was wounded by stray bullets in Clarkes Estate last week.Police also reported that in Hanover Park, a Grade 8 pupil, Justin Abrahams, was stabbed to death while on his way home from Mount View High School.Two weeks ago, a Westridge High School matric pupil, Wade Arendse was shot dead in Mitchells Plain when he was caught in crossfire. The reality is that in the Western Cape, unlike other provinces, we are faced with the scourge of gangsterism which is plaguing some of our communities. Unfortunately in communities where gansterism is prominent, it can sometimes spill into our schools. Gangsterism is a broad societal issue and while the education department cannot be held responsible for it, we can try and minimise its impact in our schools, education MEC Debbie Sch fer s spokesperson, Jessica Shelver said.The Western Cape education department has a number of behavioural interventions to try and deter pupils from engaging in antisocial or gang-related activities. Behavioural interventions included programmes in conflict management, trauma counselling and behaviour modification. They also included anti-gang strategies to deter pupils from joining a gang. These programmes happen throughout the school year and during school holidays in partnership with other provincial departments such as the social development and community safety, -Tatenda Chiriseri