Historically, matches between Mamelodi Sundowns and Kaizer Chiefs have been such blockbusters that fans would endlessly chat away about them thereafter.As the two teams prepare to face off at Loftus Versfeld Stadium tomorrow at 3.30pm in what should be a titanic battle, Pitso Mosimane is hoping that Chiefs will wake the disinterested, sleeping giant that is Sundowns.This is because the Brazilians have not produced the menacing form that saw them win the CAF Champions League last month.What followed after that successful African Safari was a loss to Cape Town City in the Absa Premiership and a defeat to SuperSport United in the Telkom Knockout.At a time when the defending league champions not only need to get off the lower end of the league table, but also gain momentum in time for the Club World Cup that will include Real Madrid in Japan next month, Mosimane is hoping that Chiefs will be the perfect challenge for Sundowns to get back to their best. I like the game of Kaizer Chiefs because I am struggling with my players appetite levels for the game from winning the Champions League and from anticipating the Club World Cup. I am struggling with that. I am not a psychologist, I don t know what to say to them. I am trying my best and I don t know if it will work. But when you face Chiefs, you know the level will rise. Egos are there, Mosimane said. You have bragging rights to fight for. When we played SuperSport United, we were totally different to when we lost to Cape Town City. The levels were different. We played well against SuperSport and I hope we play like that against Chiefs. If we play like that, I can say we will win the league. But if we don t play like that, then it will be another story, Mosimane said.While he will welcome back feared hitman Leonardo Castro, who has recovered from an injury, Mosimane does not think beating Chiefs will be an easy task. The former Bafana Bafana coach is refusing to look at the last three matches that Chiefs played which ended in draws.Jingles, as Mosimane is also known, is more concerned with the five straight matches that Steve Komphela s men won in the lead up to the recent draws that piled pressure on the Chiefs coach.There is also the factor of Sundowns being second from the bottom of the log with four points and a poor run of form to show, while Amakhosi are third on the log behind Bidvest Wits and SuperSport United on 15 points. They did not win the last three but they have a better run than us. We are not in a good position, Mosimane said.Sundowns are expected to don their Champions League star for the first time tomorrow.Mmasekepe Matsebane|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za