A split in the AbaThembu royal family over succession has seen one faction vowing to crown jailed king Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo s son Azenathi as acting king later this month, despite his uncle Mthandeni Dalindyebo already claiming to be the rightful acting king.Daludumo Mtirara, a spokesperson for the faction supporting Mthandeni, said their claim to the throne is backed by the findings of the Tolo Commission. The royal family believes the Tolo Commission on the impasse of the acting king of the AbaThembu nation released on October 13, captures correctly the identity and uniqueness of the kingdom of AbaThembu, Mtirara said. The group of family members supporting Azenathi are not able to submit even a single piece of evidence supporting their arguments, if there were any. Instead, they sought support from KwaZulu-Natal through mobilisation of uninformed supporters. We don t need such support because it s foreign to our royal institution and it may easily contaminate it. Daludumo Mtirara said Mthandeni was acting because the custom of the AbaThembu kingship does not allow a son to act while his father is still alive. He said instead of accepting defeat, Azenathi s supporters thought that mobilising members from KwaZuluNatal would be an effective show of force, which might intimidate the government to freeze the implementation of the resolution of the Ngangelizwe royal family passed on October 21. We regard that as a narrow-minded attempt, which will pay them no dividend. We don t know when they will go to court as pronounced by nkosi Zwelodumo Mtirara of Ngcobo on Unitra Community Radio on October 25 that they would have no choice but to take a report released by the Tolo Commission on October 13 to court. We would like to advise Azenathi to join his uncle so together they reunite and rebuild the kingdom in order to ensure that it regains its glory, Mtirara said.Spokesperson for Azenathi Dumisani Mgudlwa rubbished claims that his faction would launch a court bid. I don t know anything about that. What must be clear is that Azenathi is the rightful acting king as king Buyelekhaya s eldest son. We are going to install him on November 25 and we are going to get him married soon. We ll call all children of the royal household, those who want to come can come. Neither side recognises the other s king.Siya Mitiprovinces@thenewage.co.za