A painstaking balancing act has resulted in a proposal of R3500 per month as a magical figure for the national minimum wage, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa said yesterday.Addressing the media on feedback on recommendations made by the panel of experts tasked with setting the amount for the wage at the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac), Ramaphosa said that the panel had to strike a balance between addressing income inequality and saving jobs. In the end you don t want a figure of a national minimum wage that is too low as not to have an impact on inequality (and) reducing wage poverty. At the same time we also said it should not be too high to lead to job destruction, Ramaphosa said.He said that business, labour, the government and the community will now have to table the proposal with their constituencies which will decide whether or not the amount was acceptable. Because we have clear proposals, we are no longer moving in different directions. We are now a step closer to finalising discussions on the national minimum wage. All social partners will now decide what their take is. Ramaphosa, making reference to South Africa s working poor, said it was appalling that 47% of the country s workforce earned below R3500 a month. More than half of the workforce in South Africa earns below R3700, and 4.6 million people don t even earn R2500 a month, he said.Ramaphosa said that while the amount fell short of labour s demand of R4500 a month, it was, however, a step in the right direction in tackling income inequality. It s not a living wage but its one of the ways of addressing wage inequality. This is an attempt at addressing the challenge of inequality and wage poverty, he said.Chairperson of the advisory panel, Prof Imraan Valodia, said that the proposed wage would go a long way in lifting the most vulnerable workers out of the poverty line. It would help to lift large numbers of workers out of wages that are extremely low, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za