Ten years ago SuperSport United s then coach Pitso Mosimane went on an African safari for a suitable successor to veteran goalkeeper Andre Arendse. Who he found was a 19-year-old gem in Denis Onyango, a gentle giant from Uganda whose ambition was to become the Petr Cech of local football.Yet Mosimane could not have imagined that Onyango would one day help him achieve his greatest feat as yet when he signed the young goalie from Ethiopian club St George s circa 2006. He is now part of the Mamelodi Sundowns outfit that delivered the CAF Champions League trophy.At home in Kampala, Onyango is a cult figure, the owner of a piece of land he received from the Uganda FA after he became their first player ever to win a CAF Champions League medal. He will be playing in front of his home fans for the first time since the Champions League triumph when the Cranes face Congo in their World Cup qualifier match in Kampala this weekend.The 29-year-old goalie helped Uganda qualify for their first Africa Cup of Nations in 38 years and is looking to clinch a historic World Cup final spot. I think I am at the end of my international career. I ve been with the national team for 10 years and I have not achieved anything yet, Onyango said. But I have something to show for my efforts. I got them to the Nations Cup after 38 years. It certainly hasn t been all sunshine and roses for the Sundowns goalie, going from being an understudy to Arendse to entrenching himself in the star-studded Sundowns team. There have been challenges along the way, I ve had my ups and downs, Onyango competition from Calvin (Marlin). Things could not work out. I stayed for two years without playing. Went on loan to Wits where I also faced tough competition from Moeneeb Josephs. But then Pitso came and brought me back to Sundowns where I found Kennedy Mweene and Thela Ngobeni. Pitso knows my potential. I m home here. It s a far cry from the one-room house he shared with his family back in Nsambuya, a suburb outside Kampala. These days, Onyango resides in the affluent Johannesburg suburbs, though he continues to maintain a modest lifestyle. I live with my wife and four boys. They are my pillars of strength, Onyango said. Every time I play they all watch me and encourage me to win. That keeps me going. It makes me work hard. With almost all local trophies, what s next for Onyango? We now aim to defend the league, he said. Competition has improved in the PSL over the last 10 years. Every team can win the league. Wits wouldn t be fighting for the league title back then. But now they are. However, it s disappointing that more fans are not coming to the games. kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha