WHEN Itumeleng Duiker started drawing in primary school, little did he know that some years later he would be one of the fastest-growing artists in Bloemfontein.From humble beginnings, Duiker today runs his own studio where he specialises in drawing, painting and sculpting.Born and bred in Mangaung 34 years ago, he has slowly gone from strength to strength over the years. I started drawing for fun while in primary school and I did not know then that the passion for drawing would grow on me.I would sometimes be called to order by my teachers because of the time I spent on drawing and not focusing on my other schoolwork, Duiker said.Upon completing his matric at Kaelang Senior Secondary in 1999, Duiker went to look for a job. I am from a family where my parents were not earning enough to register me at a tertiary college where I wanted to study fine art.I became frustrated about life because of the lack of funds. Despite being frustrated, Duiker did not despair but continued drawing. I did not know I could paint. I started to paint my old pictures and realised that I could make a living out of this. I now paint pretty much on everything,from T-shirts to walls. My pieces generally convey messages, ideas, emotions, moods or in some cases serve a strictly aesthetic purpose. When Duiker started to make money out of his passion, he invested in a machine that helps him shape his work. Most of my clients like their pictures drawn and painted and for me that has become an instant hit.I also draw and paint portraits live with the client sitting next to me. I also sell T-shirts, caps and pants in and around the Bloemfontein CBD. He says in the process, he has learned to do other artistic jobs as well. I also do portraits, sculptures, billboards and illustrations. I do pretty much everything drawn and painted. My business is slowly picking up as I get lots of inquiries from different organisations.I really love what I do. He says the arts in the Free State is still far behind. The development of artists in our province is demoralising to say the least.Our government does not take our work seriously. Even at the Mangaung Cultural Festival (Macufe) we hardly had any recognition. Instead, the organisers brought artists from Gauteng and the Western Cape. So there is absolutely no way we would grow as artists. I performed only once in Macufe and this tells you that we still have a long way to go . He is nevertheless upbeat that things will improve. We intend engaging our provincial government and the municipalities to invest in our artists, Duiker saidMICHAEL TLHAKUDI&nbsp;