PINKY KHOABANE, Uncensored Opinion | NOVEMBER 22, 2016By The Maytrix. You can find him on Twitter @themaytrix23When he isn t running with headers that scream President Jacob Zuma losing support amongst metro urban black population , Kantar TNS Kyle Findlay is fondling tweets to massage them into a message that seeks to detract attention from white monopoly capital s role in state capture.Kyle lists himself as Head of Data Science and Knowledge Creation at the TNS Global Brand Equity Centre (GBEC) in Cape Town. He has emerged as the Pepe of white monopoly capital in the discourse around state capture. For those who do not know Pepe, he is a notorious Real Madrid defender who is not afraid to play dirty just to stop opponents from scoring against his team. He infamously got a 10-match ban after a violent attack on a Getafe player during a La Liga match.Now Kyle Findlay appears to be abusing the field of data science and Kantar TNS s resources to trumpet the politics of anti-black progress. Kantar TNS found 2000 people in the metro urban black population that appear to not support president Jacob Zuma as president. There is absolutely no need to cast any doubt on the concept of sampling. One needn t even try to make Kyle s efforts any meaningless than they already are. But if you walked around the financial district in Sandton you could easily find 2000 blacks that would deliver on Kyle s poll s revelations on president Zuma losing support among blacks in the urban metros. I m not persuaded to accept such an exercise as data science.So let s move onto the second part of Kyle s role at Kantar TNS, which is knowledge creation. To put this into context, in academia, knowledge creation starts happening at PhD level. Before you get to this level, you have to pass through a Master s programme that requires you to properly research a subject. It is common cause that the former public protector Thuli Madonsela would fail miserably at this level. Use of Wikipedia as a source of research material is an abomination. This is a very important lapse in a key chapter 9 institution. Poorly researched pieces of work finding approval from the chattering classes just because they implicate those who are putting up a fight for transformation!By the way, If you open this link while in the vicinity of Saxonwold, cellphone records will observe that you may or may not have been to the Saxonwold shebeen. That is the level of mediocrity that pathetic research leads to.Kyle has found a way of pushing pseudo data science and knowledge creation through a website called www.superlinear.co.za. The website is registered by Kyle himself and lists katie@edgedigital.co.za as a contact. It is not clear what the relationship between Kyle and Katie is, but not only do they share a surname, they are both in the same industry.Katie has had Devil s Peak in Cape Town as her residential address. What s in a name? Katie Findlay also doubles as a chef. That might explain where Kyle learned the ability to cook up propaganda against alternative media that is now making a mockery of the anti-black mainstream media in South Africa. She has worked for same causes as Stellenbosch university alumnus Brett Lowe through www.go4word.co.za who recently served as e-marketing manager at Christo Wiese s Shoprite. Lowe has since joined Capitec. The reader is welcome to join the dots.It doesn t surprise that she s linked to research whose aim is to dismiss the existence of white monopoly capital in the South African economy. Her company, Edge Digital boasts the likes of Indigo Trust as a client. The trust is unsurprisingly anti-government in its posture. George Soros is a donor through OSI. They also have the Vodacom Foundation. The hashtag #WhoOwnsWhatWednesdays would provide insights on how Johan Rupert helped start this telecoms giant. Indigo Trust also funds Daily Maverick, another anti-government media outlet.Lastly, any data scientist or knowledge creationist worth their salt would do well to get the science attached to their own data in order. As it is, www.superlinear.co.za shares a physical address with a company called Pecusure Consulting. A simple google search would reveal stories from a number of people complaining that 1000 s of people have been scammed by this company. You run a website that masquerades as a creator of knowledge while you share an address with other websites accused of fraud? Evidently, Kyle is incapable of doing adequate research of his or Katie s website, unless of course he happens to be the fraud that s reportedly scamming people online. The article first appeared on Censored- Stories that media ignore READ: uncensoredopinion.co.za