The family of a severely disabled child has questioned how nearly R4.5m of a R13.1m malpractice payout had been spent on unexplained legal fees and medical reports.The Mavimbela family want answers from the lawyer, police and the South African Law Society on how personal injury lawyer Gary Austin paid out millions to service providers while the family received a mere R35 400 to take care of the disabled child since the legal action was instituted in 2013 until she terminated the contract with the lawyer in 2015.Austin has denied any wrongdoing and accused the family of self-enrichment.In 2010, 18-month-old Nonjabulo Mavimbela was hospitalised in the Far East Rand Hospital and misdiagnosed as having bacterial meningitis. As a result of this, the child, who before she fell ill had begun to speak, suffered brain damage and now has cerebral palsy.While in hospital the child s mother Brenda Mavimbela was visited by a prayer group who introduced her to Austin. On Sundays people would come and pray, Mavimbela said. The white lady asked us what was wrong.She said she knew people who could help us get the best treatment. Caught in a legal tangle NONJABULO WAS MISDIAGNOSED AT A STATE HOSPITAL AND IS SEVERELY DISABLED When she met Austin he said that they could sue the Gauteng department of health and the hospital for medical negligence.On August 11 last year, the case was settled out of court. At the time the mother said they were told to sign documents. We didn t read the documents, she admits, nor does she have a copy of the original contract. The lawyers wanted to know why they did not seem happy, she said. We were not happy because Nonjabulo was brain damaged and nothing can reverse the brain damage. Instead of finding themselves in a situation where they could adequately care for their severely disabled daughter, they soon discovered that a large amount of the settlement had been spent on medical and legal fees. Mavimbela said she had several problems handling this matter .She could not understand how substantial amounts had been spent on doctors who had never examined her child. She also questions the fact that there are differences between the accounts given to her in 2015 and the one prepared the Law Society for the setting up of the Mavimbela trust account in 2016.Independent lawyer Zahir Omar has other problems with the handling of this account. He wants to know why the money was not placed in an interest bearing account. Why was the mother asked to sign a contract giving a 25% cut from the settlement to Austin? He said this was highly irregular because there is a maximum cut of 20%. He says there are unanswered questions regarding informed consent relating to the mother signing documents without being fully informed of the contents.A Hawks spokesperson has confirmed that the unit is investigating. Austin, however, said the entire story was a red herring. All the amounts could be explained. He accused Mavimbela s husband Lucky of being dishonest . Our relationship with the Mavimbela family broke down when it became evident that Lucky was more concerned about using the money for self enrichment and despite us having arranged a consultation with independent attorneys who also tried to explain to him that he could not use Nonjabulo s funds to support the family s general expenses, he refused to accept these principles. news@thenewage.co.za