A new website allowing Gmail users to unsubscribe from most websites and online services linked to their email address is currently buzzing online. There are, in fact, several online tools that can help declutter your inbox and keep personal data safe.Opting out of the internet The website deseat.me works in a very simple way. Users connect using their Google account. Then, the application finds all the services, websites and mailing lists linked to that particular Gmail address.This can include accounts on social networks, online stores and dating websites, for example. It can take quite a while to find everything if your inbox is full or your online activity is particularly rich and diverse.After completing the search, deseat.me lists all the services and accounts alongside a link to delete or unsubscribe directly. The tool is especially handy for digging up old sites or services you may no longer use, but which still hold personal data. Note, however, that the service is currently only available for Gmail addresses.No more newsletters! Unroll.me is a similar service that&#8217;s available for any email address (not just Gmail). For a while now, the site has been offering web users a quick, easy solution for unsubscribing from newsletters. After all, who hasn&#8217;t complained about getting too many unwanted emails without ever bothering tounsubscribe? Like deseat.me, the application lists all of the newsletters sent to a particular email address with a link to unsubscribe from each one in just one click. Incredibly practical, it can instantly unclutter your inbox and stop you being inundated with newsletters that get moved straight to trash.Why bother? As well as cutting down on unwanted emails, this online clean-up unsubscribes users from sites that may still hold personal data, which could be stolen if the site is hacked. Reducing the presence of an email address online in turn reduces the risk of it falling into unwanted hands.&#8211; Visit deseat.me: deseat.me &#8211; Visit Unroll.me: unroll.meRelaxnews