Areas such as Kwanyamazane, Hazyview, Bushbuckridge and Acornhoek have seen an increase in the number of cash-in-transit heists in which security guards are shot and killed.According to police statistics, highly organised heists have increased by 28.6% in the province and brought on a paralysing effect in the affected areas.However, police spokesperson Brig Leonard Hlathi says although there is lack of funding, the authorities in the province are doing everything in their power to stop the scourge. You should remember that we are working with minimum resources; we are utilising whatever we have, he said. We are working closely with private security companies and we always meet with them to discuss strategies. Without strategies, I believe the number of heists would be higher. Because of the lack of funds, we do experience some problems. Senior lecturer in the department of police practice at the University of South Africa, Dr Hendrik Lochner, said cashin-transit robbers would shoot anyone who stood in their way.Lochner said what made the assailants particularly dangerous was that they weren t typical criminals; their operations would be intelligence-driven and well-planned. They look, verify the information and they go through several steps to make sure they will succeed in what they plan, he said. These people are professionals they have grown in their profession as criminals. Before they got involved in cashin-transit heists, they robbed banks and houses and carjacked. When you go to work from 8am to 4pm, they observe, they plan. The shortest planning period is four months and the longest is one year and six months. It is no longer the constable at the police station driving the police van that must be on the lookout. It goes further than that. It s crime intelligence unit members who are also involved. Lochner s observations illustrate that police officers are deeply embedded in organised crime, bringing sophistication to the planning and execution of criminal activity.Lochner said he had witnessed crime intelligence members collecting the loot instead of arresting the criminals. He said the use of police helicopters was one way to reduce cashin-transit heists, as the criminals would usually abandon the robbery if pursued from the air.But there was also an air of prestige when it came to cash-in-transit heists. Most of the criminal world and criminals among themselves recognise that cash-in-transit robbers are the ultimate criminals, Lochner said.LEHLOHONOLO MASHIGOprovinces@thenewage.co.za