Despite a robust and candid debate by the ANC s national executive committee (NEC) on President Jacob Zuma stepping down, the party ultimately decided to back its president.Addressing the media yesterday on the outcomes of the ANC s NEC meeting, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said that despite a call for Zuma to leave office being raised in some quarters within the party s NEC, the ANC s highest decision-making body resolved that Zuma should remain at the helm of the party s leadership. There was a call for the president to step down. That call ultimately was not acceded to after persuasion among comrades in the meeting, Mantashe said.He said that the ANC could not risk being divided on the matter as it regarded unity and cohesion as a topmost priority. That s how far we went in terms of nudging each other to appreciate that working for division in the ANC will not give us results, working for the unity of the ANC will give us a better ANC. Mantashe said that although a process of voting for or against Zuma to leave office was not conducted, consensus was reached that Zuma would remain the president of the ANC and the country. The essence of engagement and discussion is persuasion in order to arrive at consensus. As such, the NEC of the ANC always seeks to persuade one another through argument. It does not seek to conclude matters through voting. Following robust, honest, candid and at times difficult discussions, the NEC did not support the call for the president to step down. Mantashe said however that no stone had been left unturned in the party s discussions on the leadership of Zuma. All members of the NEC had an opportunity to raise, in the meeting, the issues they feel are hurting the movement and the country. All these are very important and are being given due consideration by the NEC, he said.Mantashe said of the ANC NEC s meeting with the 101 group of ANC stalwarts and veterans: In these engagements we have encountered many different views. The meetings with churches and the veterans in particular, without exception, have advised us to work for the unity of the movement as a critical element of the programme of renewal. ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte said Zuma closed the NEC meeting saying that the president welcomed the openness and transparency of the discussion to have him removed from office. It was actually a very good discussion because it enabled us to look at a number of issues that may have been discussed in corridors but were put on the table, dealt with and we are able to move forward, she said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za