Thousands of poor matriculants who plan to study at tertiary institutions may be without state funding next year as the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) application period comes to an end today.Only 200000 of 600000 matriculants have applied for NSFAS funding, leading to Cosas lambasting the handling of the newly introduced online application system.Cosas called for the scheme to consider an extension and assist matriculants to get funding for next year.Cosas president Zama Khanyase said: There was no effort to educate prospective students about the process of applying for a study loan. The students movement is even more concerned about the matriculants who are currently studying in rural and remote areas where they barely have access to information about everything more especially applications to institutions of higher learning, bursaries and now Nsfas. Nsfas spokesperson Kagisho Mamabolo said it was unclear why so few had applied for funding. It is possible that some are not applying because they think that in order to apply Nsfas requires the student to be accepted at a university or TVET college first. This is not necessarily the case because pupils can still apply for funding in the meantime, before applying for space at universities or TVET colleges, or while awaiting confirmation from these institutions, he said.Khanyase said: This is a new system and we request that there be provision for pupils coming from rural and disadvantaged schools should they miss the deadline to apply. There were no NSFAS officials who went to districts to ensure that district officials and teachers spread the message at schools. Mamabolo however said the new system was thoroughly communicated to all stakeholders. Our rural outreach teams will continue to distribute the forms in the many rural districts they visit. More than 223832 applicants have actually applied since the opening of applications, which shows that pupils are aware of this system, he said.Mamabolo said the applications were not only done online. We are also receiving manual applications by post from pupils who cannot use the internet to apply, he said, adding that an extension to the deadline would not be granted. NSFAS opened for centralised applications at the beginning of August to give applicants adequate time to submit. Therefore applications will be closing today, Mamabolo said.Batandwa Malingobatandwam@thenewage.co.za