&nbsp;There is fury over the Wi-Fi blackout experienced in the last month across the city of Johannesburg s free hot spots.Lobby group Joburg Social Movement called said some free Wi-Fi areas have been without connection for 26 days. The most affected areas are in townships from Diepkloof to Tokoza Rea Vaya stations. This time of the year, students are writing exams, they need access to the internet. Young entrepreneurs in forex investments are affected and job seekers are also affected, Joburg Social Movement spokesperson Tshepang Mokgatla said. Now it s all gone, the digital divide widens and disadvantages black people, Mokgatla said. Director of communications at the mayor s office Tony Taverna-Turisan said the city had no intention of shutting down its free Wi-Fi programme. In fact, plans are under way to expand the number of free Wi-Fi hot spots across the city, including at clinics and libraries, Taverna-Turisan said. Community activist Sasabona Manganye yesterday joined the call for the restoration of services amid claims the DA-led administration had decided to discontinue the project started by former mayor Parks Tau. Corporate shared services department cut off the service and used cost cutting as a reason. However, after investigation I found that it has been cut off because the department is not willing to work with the company providing the service, Manganye said.The activists also announced plans to march to the mayor s office on November 22 when Herman Mashaba and his administration will be celebrating 100 days since taking office. In addition, Manganye has written an open letter widely circulated on social media, about a campaign titled #MashabaBringBackWifi, aimed at persuading the Johannesburg mayor to act as soon as possible. We are not fighting yet, the patience of young people must not be tested or else this will be taken to the streets. Given my professional area of focus, it really pains me that the first consideration in your cost-cutting measures is limiting the black child from accessing the internet. Access to internet remains the major enabler to get information. It is the internet that makes it easier for any government to promote access of information by its people, Manganye said.The city s director of communications acknowledged that some areas are down, but down-played the magnitude of the problem. It is important to note that only a few sites are down and the majority of free Wi-Fi hot spots are still up and running. This includes all business hubs in each of Joburg s seven regions, such as the Marshalltown hub in Braamfontein, he said.Taverna-Turisan said that the city noted the important role these hot spots played in providing its residents, especially the poor, with access to the internet. We appreciate the public coming forward and informing us whenever there are problems which will be dealt with immediately, as is being done in this case, Taverna-Turisan said.ANC greater Johannesburg region spokesperson Jolidee Matongo said they support the campaign. We are concerned amid having complaints from residents. Wi-Fi is a critical service, it does not institute wasteful expenditure, it is a need. If there are technical problems, they should be attended to, Matongo said.Ntombi Nkosi|ntombin@thenewage.co.za