Few words can best describe how dismal the Springboks have been this year.Allister Coetzee s men lost their eighth match of the year, with Wales the latest team to prove just how far the once mighty and all conquering Springboks have fallen.It did not take long after the Boks defeat out in Cardiff for Saru president Mark Alexander to announce that SA Rugby administration will undergo a massive overhaul and the Springboks will undergo a rigorous review process.While teams such as Argentina, Ireland and Wales are improving in leaps and bounds, with the All Blacks almost unbeatable this year, the Boks have been in a total shambles. They lost to Wales, Ireland, twice against the All Blacks, once against Argentina, England, Australia and Italy.As is becoming the norm whenever the Boks play, Alexander issued another embarrassing apology for Saturday s 27-13 loss to Wales. This has been a profoundly disappointing season in terms of results and we are acutely aware that we have failed to live up to the Springboks proud heritage, Alexander said. We are all feeling very raw and let down and it would be easy to make knee-jerk decisions. But we must resist that. Our playing fortunes have been declining since the Outgoing Tour of 2014. Despite a fine fightback to win a bronze medal at the Rugby World Cup, we must coolly and coldly analyse what have been the main factors contributing to those results before determining what remedies are at our disposal to solve them. We will start by speaking to the coach and other team role players for their assessment and to provide our feedback. We ve lost many experienced Test players to overseas clubs, both of which have had major repercussions for the Springboks, Alexander said.As his ship continues to sink, Coetzee has spoken about several regrets and his wish for a time machine. I should probably have done it differently and gone for more young players and more Lions players, but I was worried that if I did do that and back the youngsters, I might end up sitting in the same position that I am now and regret not opting for more experience. It was a difficult thing to decide on, but if I could rewind the clock, I d now go the other way. The Springboks will arrive in the country from Wales this morning.MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za