Once the festive season is over, the post-celebratory blues begin and for most it is accompanied with quite a few other emotions as well. There is the nagging worry of the damage you&#8217;ve done to your body along with the guilt of watching your now soaring weight. Some also move up a size or two. The festivity and celebrations certainly can&#8217;t have left you feeling fabulous about that.If the only workout you&#8217;re getting in these days is the struggle of getting in and out of your now tight clothes, you&#8217;re really not in a good space. The question is, how do you knock off that extra flab, inches and weight fast, well in time for the wedding season which is right around the corner, not to mention Christmas and New Year&#8217;s?Start some form of cardio ASAP Fitness professional Nawaz Modi Singhania says, &#8220;Start doing some cardio activity for an hour four to six days a week. Walking might be the simplest. If you&#8217;re unaccustomed to exercise, you may start with a 45 minute walk thrice a week, but as you feel you&#8217;re able to cope with more, move that up gradually to an hour, six days a week for maximum result. If walking bores you, watch a good movie while sweating it out on the treadmill, or listen to your favourite music. There also are many other cardio activities to pick from, such as an aerobic class, cardio dance, swimming, rope skipping or stair climbing.&#8221;Watch what you eat Watching your intake is a must. Experts say that your three square meals will end up making you rounder! Nawaz suggests, &#8220;Be a nibbler instead. Cut out white sugar, white flour, fried foods, aerated drinks and alcohol. Reduce your salt intake. Eat more fresh fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds and healthy grains.&#8221;What really works Fitness instructor Asif Shaikh states that there are three components one must follow in order to actually lose weight. &#8220;You must get into heavy weight training, indulge in moderated cardiovascular exercises and make sure that you have proper nutrition to support your regime.&#8221; Asif cautions that it is essential to follow all these three together in order to actually lose weight the healthy way.&#8221;Plan and deal with it Don&#8217;t panic over weight gain Experts say that post the festive season an average adult self-reports weight gain from 2.5 to five kgs. However, many a times that is a perceived weight gain and the actual gain is only around two kgs. Festive-weight gain, say experts, is nothing to panic about and can be dealt with easily.Overweight people are at risk Studies have found that people who have a higher BMI already, gain more weight than a person with average weight, during the festive-binge-season. The study found that 20 per cent of obese subjects and 10 per cent of overweight subjects gained more than five pounds, compared with only five per cent of non-overweight people.What you should do Once you know your risk, you can plan accordingly to get rid of the excess weight. If you have always had a healthy weight, you could take it easy but if you have a bad history with weight, you must stay alert about exercise and diet.This article first appeared on The Time of India