Today s meeting between the ANC s national working committee and a group of disgruntled stalwarts in Tshwane is set to be a tense affair.The group of 106 stalwarts and veterans are expected to present a document, For The Sake Of Our Future, to the NWC.Among their list of demands, the group is calling for a national consultative meeting, the creation of a credible ANC platform to save its legacy, the return of genuine members of the ANC to their branches and to ensure that the ANC s 2017 elective conference is used as a platform to kick-off the party s renewal processes.At its last meeting, the ANC s national working committee (NWC) said that its branches had rejected the call for a consultative conference and said that it was working according to its normal schedule of hosting a policy conference in June 2017 and its elective conference in December the same year.Last week ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte told The New Age that the NWC respected the views of the veterans and was not looking for a confrontation when they meet today. The NEC has conducted an extensive analysis of the current problems. We have now moved on to fixing these problems, Duarte said. When we meet with the veterans we are looking forward to their own analysis of the current situation. We don t want an antagonistic debate. Based on our joint analysis, we must seek joint solutions. Fazel Randera, a coordinator of the veterans group confirmed to The New Age last week that they had met to finalise their strategy for the meeting. We called it a preparatory meeting. We want to get the views of the people who put their names on the document so that when we meet, we express the views of the people, he said.Weekend media reports quoted Randera as confirming that they would present a document. We will of course go to that meeting with the NWC on Monday around the document that we prepared and I think that remains our position. We hope that the NWC will give us a good hearing, that we will be able to speak to each other as comrades of old and new, and that we will come out with a position that is best for the organisation. -TNA Reporter