More than 400 healthcare workers in the North West have been trained to insert contraceptive implants in an effort to tackle unplanned teenage pregnancies in the Ratlou municipality.The municipality is dealing with high levels of teenage pregnancy, where girls as young as 11 years old are mothers and out of school.In August, it emerged that more than 2000 underage girls in Ratlou had fallen pregnant.North West health department spokesperson Tebogo Lekgethwane said the department was embarking on educational campaigns including birth control to deal with the problem of child pregnancy. The department is also implementing the new contraception and fertility policy guideline that emphasises long lasting contraception. More than 400 health professionals were trained on the insertion of the subdermal implant which lasts for three years and thus reduces clinical visits while at the same time is easily reversible, he said.The contraceptive implant has been available for more than two years in South Africa is matchstick sized and implanted under the skin on the inside of the upper arm.Socio-economic issues affecting Ratlou municipality include joblessness, poverty and high levels of illiteracy.With 42% of the municipality s population out of work, many residents have been forced to rely on social grants and part-time employment to make ends meet.Provincial social development department spokesperson Petrus Siko said some of the programmes to be set up will involve teenage mothers. The department will set up groups with school children to deal with teenage pregnancy through a school social work programme. The department will establish groups with expectant mothers from clinics and health centres in November where social workers will provide psychosocial support services to the identified centres, he said.Siko said private companies had also stepped in to assist, with one company planning to build a housing project and another one offering financial literacy lessons. Some households in Mareetsane, one of the worst affected villages, were offered help and a number of measures have been put in place to help young mothers, Siko said. The social workers have given psychosocial services to the identified teenage mothers. Seven clinical cases have been opened. Counselling and support is given to the affected young mothers in Ratlou. More than 62 households in Mareetsane village were given material assistance, which included food parcels, he said.Siko said the department identified high rates of poverty, illiteracy and poor parenting as some of the major contributing factors behind the high rate of teen pregnancy. High poverty levels force girls to assume responsibilities at an early age and compromise their values, which leads to early pregnancy and communicable diseases, he said, adding that child neglect was also a major contributing factor behind teenage pregnancy in the areas. There are instances of child neglect in most cases. Children are not supervised properly. They end up being vulnerable and susceptible to sexual, financial and emotional abuse. The cycle of poor school attendance is not broken because most parents are not educated. There is no one in the family who encourages the children to take education seriously, Siko said.zodidim@thenewage.co.za