Nestled in one of the most notorious areas in Johannesburg in between two dark, dingy, garbage strewn alleys, the Hillbrow Boxing Club continues to churn out some of the country s finest pugilists.Hillbrow is located in the heart of the City of Gold and brims with untapped boxing talent.But, over the years, the once affluent area has become synonymous with crimes like drug peddling, violence and theft.Add to that, the social problems have heightened with thousands of poor migrants and locals descending on Hillbrow seeking a better life.Against this unsavoury backdrop is a beacon of hope and transformation in the boxing club owned and run with very little means by the humble and soft-spoken George Khosi. I want to do more for the children and young people because change starts with them, however, it is difficult with so few resources and even with the little I charge adults, some of them cannot afford it and I will never turn them away from my club, Khosi says.Khosi, 47, had a lengthy, successful stint as a boxer. He has several amateur accolades under his belt that includes nine Soweto titles, three Gauteng titles and one national title.Unfortunately, his boxing career had to be cut short after he was shot. He was in a coma for two months.Instead of wallowing in self-pity, he opened the boxing club in 1999 to make a difference. I did not choose to retire from boxing but the shooting left me no choice. I realised I could use boxing as a tool for change for youngsters in our community .And this has paid off as his club has produced outstanding boxers in the mould of Julie Tshabalala.The media-shy, but talented Aphiwe Khumalo is also under his tutelage.Another of his prot g s, Rita Mrwebi, is billed for her debut tournament later this year.He is, however, not content with what he has achieved so far and remains determined to use the club as a safe haven for kids to stay off the street and away from drugs and violence. As you can see, from Monday to Sunday this club is packed with kids. Instead of being on the streets they spend all their time here learning the valuable sport. His biggest impediment has been a lack of finances and resources. His 80 boxing students need boxing gloves, bandages, jab and hook pads and gum guards.The school-going kids, who train at his club, do not pay anything for his services while adults pay R120 a month.Nick Durandt, a retired boxer who has produced more than 100 national and World boxing champions, has previously spoken out against the lack of funding for boxing in SA.The Department of Sports and Recreation s spokesperson Esethu Hasane said they were aware of the challenges.He said the department continues to make efforts to improve, as well as develop the sport in this country. Funds are our biggest issue in the department, but it has given R10m to Boxing SA, as well as appointed a new CEO to revive boxing in SA. We are confident that the money the department has given Boxing SA will be used effectively, he said.-Canny Maphanga