There is no doubt that the memory of Augusto Palacios previous stint influenced his appointment as interim coach of Orlando Pirates. There is the benefit of him already knowing the culture of the team and what is required to succeed in such a strenuous position. Word from the Buccaneers camp is that Palacios is the antidote to erstwhile coach Muhsin Ertugral.But he is seen as someone who has simplified things and restored some good vibes. It is Palacios personality which inspired the Buccaneers turnaround the last time, an upturn which resulted in them winning the league when he took over from Julio Leal under similar circumstances four seasons ago. Yet it remains to be seen whether or not he is the same Palacios as the one who arrived in 2012 and delivered the team s successive league championship.It is worth noting that four seasons ago Pirates were third with 30 points after 18 matches and had an equal chance of winning the three-horse race to PSL glory against fiercest rivals Kaizer Chiefs and Mamelodi Sundowns. The Peruvian faces a slightly different challenge this time around, having to haul the Buccaneers from seventh spot where they lie with 10 points, but are a mere six adrift of log leaders Bidvest Wits. That mission begins when he guides Bucs against Free State Stars at Orlando Stadium tomorrow night (6pm) in what will be Palacios first league match.He has already guided Bucs to the semifinals of the Telkom Knockout Challenge and could well deliver his first trophy as early as next month. However, that would require consistency from a team which battled to muster any under Ertugral. Palacios has the tools, inheriting a team teeming with internationals such as Mpho Makola, Tendai Ndoro and Thabo Matlaba.Makola was influential for Bafana Bafana in a recent World Cup qualifier against Senegal and the attacking midfielder is expected to convert his international form to the club level. However, nothing except their lowly league standing suggests Stars will be a walkover. Ea Lla Koto haven t lost since Giovanni Solinas returned to the helm, drawing three matches while also securing a rare Telkom Knockout semifinal spot. This is certainly a test for both coaches, sitting at different ends but going head to head in a battle of wits.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha