South African business executives are 10% optimistic about the outlook for the country s economy in the coming year, Grant Thornton s International Business Report (IBR) for the third quarter reveals. Just 10% optimistic may seem poor but compared to South African business executives extremely pessimistic outlook during the first quarter of this year when a negative 41% was recorded, the 51% improvement in business optimism since then is certainly promising, Deepak Nagar, chairperson of Grant Thornton SA, the independent assurance, tax and advisory firm, said.The firm calculates business optimism by measuring the percentage of respondents who reported a positive outlook, less the percentage who reported a negative outlook.In the case of quarter three 2016, the outlook has returned to positive for the first time in the past five quarters with 10% more optimistic responses expressed than negative. The South African political landscape is very rocky at the moment with many highly contentious issues, Nagar said. But one thing that is a huge positive for our country is that the nation s democracy is really and truly working. We believe this is the key reason why South African business executives seem to be more upbeat. Nagar says the optimism does not stem from a stable economy in any shape or form.The report provides insights from around the world.The survey presents perceptions into the views and expectations of more than 10000 top executives in privately held and listed businesses, across more than 37 economies more than 2500 interviews per quarter.Regional and national perceptions are also researched every quarter for South Africa, from 400 local privately held business executives annually 100 executive interviews per quarter regarding crime, service delivery and political climate.Biggest constraints: In SA, exchange rate fluctuations topped the list as the country s biggest constraint to business expansion, with 55% of business executives highlighting this. Second was economic uncertainty, with 54% of executives saying this limits growth opportunities. Rising energy costs is South Africa s third-biggest constraint limiting business expansion, with 46% of business executives concerned. Overregulation and red tape is SA s fourth-greatest constraint, according to 40% of businesses. The lack of a skilled workforce is constraining 33% of business executives growth plans. Earlier this year, the Companies and International Property Commission announced a new online system in partnership with major banks whereby new company registrations, new company bank accounts and the required tax numbers could all be applied for and obtained seamlessly. Initiatives such as these help to ensure that regulation and red tape issues are less of a burden to business growth, which is laudable, Nagar said.Sello Rabothatasellor@thenewage.co.za