The Morningside family whose home was petrol bombed last week, allegedly by aggrieved shack dwellers, welcomed a visit by eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede to express her concern and witness what remained of their razed house.A relative of the family who asked to remain anonymous for fear of reprisals, said Gumede s visit had given them hope. She and her team, care enough to come here and see the damage. It shows sympathy and we appreciate the donations she brought, the relative said.The petrol bombing incident occurred last Sunday about 11pm on Earl Haig Road. A 52-year-old woman and her 18-year-old daughter were asleep inside the house. The first bomb landed inside the lounge after being thrown in via the window. Others followed in the kitchen and through the bedroom windows by a group of people outside. The woman apparently pleaded with them to stop but they continued with the attacks and even petrol bombed her car. She and her daughter then ran for safety. When neighbours came to their rescue, the men fled, the relative said.The attack was allegedly an act of reprisal by angry shack dwellers who were recently removed by the eThekwini Land Invasion Unit from land owned by the victim following an illegal invasion. Several shacks were demolished on Friday after the invaders broke her fence and started building on her property.Upon meeting the destitute and traumatised family members Gumede said the city will assist the family to find accommodation. She said her visit to the area was to let the family know she felt their pain and to show them support. We have to fight for people s safety.It is important to first ensure the family is settled and receives the necessary counselling before focusing on their accommodation, Gumede said.Residents in the area said more threats had been made against their lives. They told Gumede since the unit started razing shacks, the residents were being blamed for the demolishments. There will be security on the ground in the area to ensure residents safety. This attack affects us all including the city. We cannot allow it, Gumede said.The department of human settlements condemned the attack, saying they will do everything that they can to assist the family in their time of need.sibongisenim@thenewage.co.za