LIMPOPO-BORN musician turned South Africa s most sought after hit maker King Monada, is surprised by the positive response to his hit song,Ska Bhora Moreki.This song has practically turned the upcoming artist into an instant pop culture icon.However, he has over the years worked hard to make it in the music industry.The man born Khutso Steven Kgale said nothing prepared him for the amount of love and attention his music is receiving on the airwaves as well as on the streets of SA. I ve always known I had talent but He is the one who told me that I have great potential to make it big. He told me to go out there and market myself, the rising star of SA dance music culture said.It is surprising that Monanda only made music for his home town and province but with the recent success, his song has become a constant feature on national radio stations, making him one of the rising stars of 2016 set to usher SA into a jiving 2017.The 24 year old said he had been trying to find his sound for six years, though his love for performing dates back to when his uncle had a band. My love for music started when I watched my uncle play drums with his band members.I followed him around everywhere he was performing. When his group disbanded I took over the reins and continued singing, he said. The dancer turned singer has given credit to the late Peter Tenet a disco musician of Shangaan descent and the late Bojo Mojo who brought the nation hits such Summer rain as his idols.The uptempo hit Ska Bhora Moreki,has been a favorite to many across all dance floors with only a few who know what the song is about.The heartthrob took a moment to decipher what the message of the song is to stop all the guessing and speculations of what it means. The song is about that one guy who used to ball.He used to send his friends to buy alcohol and organise things for him. Now that he does not have money, it is his turn to be sent around to run errands. If he dares complain, we tell him that he is broke and should adhere to the requests made by the one who has money, he said. He must not bore the buyer.He must do what he is told to do without moaning. With the success of his single, the singer says he is tempted to move to Gauteng as more requests for his appearance pour in. A lot of people have been trying to convince me to move to Gauteng because Tzaneen is far from gigs and interviews, he said. I am still considering the move because my music is greatly inspired by events that happen at home, so my lyrics are based on my experiences. Moving to Johannesburg might impact my writing skills in a not-so goodway, but it is something I m definitely considering. He met music executive Molao Rammala in 2015, who convinced him to record his music, and some of the songs ended up on the demo Monna Waka.His album, Molamo, includes songs such as Di Danunu and Ke Ya Bolecha.nontokozog@thenewage.co.zaNONTOKOZO GXUMISA