Pot-holed and filthy streets, crime, broken streetlights, municipal and taxi strikes and a dysfunctional municipality were among many reasons a newspaper described Port St Johns a few years ago as the Wild Coast jewel that lost its shine.Now one of the Eastern Cape s major attractions is back on the tourist map after the local municipality decided to rebrand the town. Tourists are flocking to this picturesque town with its pristine beaches and beautiful sights. Heritage festivities have been added to the mix.Port St Johns is situated at the mouth of the Umzimvubu River, 70km east of Mthatha, and the town offers a unique mixture of cultural practices, especially the Xhosa culture, where both traditional and modern are visible.Port St Johns Amapondo Backpackers made the town proud when it won the award for the best two-star backpackers in South Africa at the national Lilizela awards in October 2016.Amapondo Backpackers is located in a stunning location on a hill with amazing panoramic views. Add a perfect beach, just two shakes of a shark s tail away, blend in African-themed rooms and classy cottages and it becomes the perfect holiday hideaway.Tourism is making Port St Johns flourish once again. Special attractions are a river mountain run, the sardine run and other activities for those who want to explore the place from all walks of life. Popular annual Silly Summer event owner Lufefe Mayekiso said Port St Johns, due to its inaccessibility, was not known to many people, especially those not from the Eastern Cape. But its once poor roads are slowly being fixed and the closest and revamped Mthatha Airport is helping to bring the tourists back. Port St Johns is poor and still underdeveloped. It has not reached its potential, Mayekiso said.He said there was a need to help cultivate and bring development to the area. Sanral s proposed new toll road will hopefully bring thousands more tourists to the area. However, deputy chairperson of the tourism forum in Port St Johns, Kathryn Costello, was unhappy about the tolling of the new road, which she said poorer people would not be able to afford. The unemployment rate in the area is at 90%. Sanral must rather build, fix and extend the roads that lead to various areas around Port St Johns and continue with painting speed humps, Costello said.She said the previous municipality did not do much to develop the area. But a private tourism forum was established, which brought many changes with more plans under way. Port St Johns is getting back its shine now, she said.Costello said FET colleges should be better funded to increase skills in hospitality, which could decrease the high unemployment rate. It is important that the people who are employed in the tourism space in Port St Johns are the locals but we need to ensure they have the required skills, Costello said.She said Blue Crane Flights was charging R1400 for return flights from Johannesburg to Mthatha to increase the possibilities of people visiting the seaside town.Namkelekile bed and breakfast owner Yongama Qume said most of the people who visited his facility were from different part of the Eastern Cape and had come because of work reasons.SISANDA MADWANTSI provinces@thenewage.co.za