&nbsp;Business confidence is still trapped in the doldrums despite increasing by 2.7 points in October to 93, compared with 90.3 in September, with local issues the most tormenting factor.The Chamber of Commerce and Industry business confidence index (BCI) published yesterday revealed that since December 2015, the index has been moving sideways, dragged down mainly by local political tensions. Our domestic issues are influencing the economy and we need to fix these before we focus on global factors. We have a lot of issues, especially when it comes to public finances and policy direction, Richard Downing, Sacci economist, said. Business is not in the political shenanigans, all that business wants is good returns. He said the business mood for the next six months would depend on what rating agencies were doing, because if the country get downgraded this will also affect South Africa businesses on the global front.According to the BCI, the more transparent and enlightened atmosphere that followed the local government elections in the beginning of August was followed by allegations early October against the minister of finance and that has created uncertainty in the business environment with adverse market and business reaction.However, Downing said although this had a bearing on the business mood, business showed resolve and remained resilient. In general the BCI sub-indices were more positive in October than in September.Three more sub-indices made a positive contribution in October than in September. Seven sub-indices contributed positively month on month to the BCI in October and one remained unchanged. Positive monthly contributions to the BCI mainly came from merchandise export volumes, the rand exchange rate, merchandise import volumes and real retail trade.The largest negative impact on the BCI came from the dollar price of gold and platinum, prices of energy and share prices on the JSE.The chamber said much hinges on economic growth over the medium-term and that should the GDP growth outlook remains weak, South Africa could be downgraded by the ratings agencies for a lengthy period. The effort by the minister of finance in the mini budget to prevent a downgrade in December should be commended. The imperative to lift economic growth is also a precursor for business confidence to translate into investor confidence. South Africa may not be on the edge of a sudden drop to junk status. The mini budget, if fittingly implemented, is the first shield to prevent a further downgrade, the chamber said.BERNARD SATHEKGE | bernards@thenewage.co.za