At the current rate, South Africa will not produce the 5000-6000 doctorates required annually by 2030 in terms of the National Development Plan.The lack of transformation is a major hindrance for the advancement of black researchers. The NDP states the country should produce 100 doctorates per million people per year. Double the number of graduate and postgraduate scientists and increase the number of African and women postgraduates, especially PhDs, to improve research and innovation capacity and make university staff more representative, the NDP says.But a lack of finance is among the key factors keeping top academics mostly lily-white and male-dominated. The country s transformation of the academic sector has been slow with the number of black researchers standing at just 1355 out of the 7187 recorded in the last three years.Women in Science Award winner Ntombenhle Gama has urged black South African scholars to make sacrifices and complete their PhDs.Gama, who is completing her PhD in biochemistry at the University of Pretoria, where she is also a part-time biochemistry lecturer, attributed the small number of black PhD holders to societal pressures and lack of opportunities. I think societal pressure and our definition of success plays an important role, especially in the black community. Full-time studies require a lot of financial sacrifice. We live in a society where the car I drive and the mansion I live in is the measure of how successful I am and, as a result, most young people would rather get a good paying job in industry than struggle on little or sometimes no funding, Gama said.The National Research Foundation (NRF) has also pointed out the slow transformation of the sector but believes there has been a slight increase in the amount of postgraduate and black researchers between 2013-15.In 2014, NRF s rating of postgraduates saw 77 black females and 377 males credited.Last year, 92 females and 428 males graduated.Gama said lack of opportunities for PhD graduates in the country also discouraged sharp minds from striving to further their studies. The science industry needs to move past only academia and sales and establish research institutes that will take in PhD graduates and offer them real opportunities for growth and pay them well, Gama said.Gama said the high levels of stress associated with prolonged study was also one of the impediments faced by postgraduate hopefuls.At some stage, she was diagnosed with depression and attributes that to the pressures faced by female PhD students, who often go all out to prove their capabilities to male counterparts . Depression is a reality in science. I was diagnosed with depression shortly after commencing my PhD. That really affected my studies and how I felt about life in general. It was after that experience that I spoke to the other women who were in our research group and realised that they had gone through the same at some point during their studies and it saddened me that emotional issues are rarely talked about, she said.KEITUMETSI MOTLHALEnews@thenewage.co.za