Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) boss Berning Ntlemeza on Tuesday said there&#8217;s a need for a &#8216;shake up&#8217; at the country&#8217;s ports of entry after the murder of Hawks member Warrant Officer Colbern Mashego.Mashego was gunned down on Sunday while following &#8220;information of a drug deal allegedly perpetrated by police officers based at OR Tambo International Airport.&#8221; I am going to request an urgent meeting with the Acting National Commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane with a view to look into the deployments at OR Tambo Airport and other ports of entries in the republic. There is a serious need for a serious shake up at all these ports of entries and the deliberations will include all other law enforcement agencies in those locations, Ntlemeza said. Ntlemeza noted that it was even more sad that Mashego&#8217;s family and colleagues had to lose him as they approached the festive season but said however that the Hawks will not be &#8216;deterred&#8217;. The Hawks will not be deterred by this attack on its membership and will maintain their increased presence throughout the season and beyond. This incident is a sober reminder that notwithstanding encouraging reductions in crime, there is still much to be done to achieve a safe and secure environment&#8221; Ntlemeza said. The case is now in the hands of the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID). The police have made a number of arrests at the airport since the beginning of the year. In March this year a 47-year-old was arrested at OR Tambo International airport while trying to smuggle crystal meth with a street value of R10m. Earlier in March, a Norwegian man was arrested for possession of 24 kg of khat while a 22-year old woman travelling on a Norwegian passport was arrested as she was about to board a Zurich-bound flight in Johannesburg last week. While in February a 50-year-old man believed to be a British national was charged with drug dealing after he was found with drugs worth more than R50000 at the airport. Police said, &#8220;the team at OR Tambo International Airport is working tirelessly to detect and decisively deal with criminality, particularly with regards to drug trafficking, at this airport. Despite the successes in this regard, drug mules continue to attempt to smuggle drugs through this port of entry, compelling authorities at the airport to remain vigilant at all times.&#8221; -TNA Reporter