AFTER stunning the world with his incoherent Black Lives Matter comments, Lil Wayne was recently rebuked by his friend and fellow rap star TI, who asked his friend to refrain from exposing his lack of knowledge on public platforms.This piece of brotherly advice comes after Lil Wayne s controversial response to the Black Lives Matter movement in a recent interview on ABC s Nightline. During the interview Lil Wayne rubbished the movement s cause when he was asked to give his opinion on the movement that has been a significant campaign in the African American community.Although he has since apologised for his irresponsible response, his friend did not hold back in a long Instagram post telling him to stop disrespecting and embarrassing himself.The Atlanta-born rapper started his lengthy note to Weezy with a disclaimer, stating that they are like brothers but does not approve of his comments. Wayne I ve known you over a decade. Our daughters grew up together practically. Our relationship outside of music is what makes me sensitive to your disposition. I know you wired a bit different than most other responsible adults, but still tripping, TI said. You re disrespecting yourself, bringing shame on your family name and tarnishing your legacy. Bro if you don t stand for something out here, all the money, jewellery, cars, mansions bandannas and hit records don t mean sh*t! Our people are being oppressed! The 36-year-old rapper concluded by giving Lil Wayne a piece of advice on how to handle an interview if he is not prepared and reminded him that he is part of the oppressed therefore the Black Lives Matter movement applies to him too. If you re not prepared for a question in an interview, say No Comment Bro. But stop embarrassing yourself &amp; everyone out here who s been supporting you. There is no middle ground. Oppression knows no neutral party, either you re part of the oppressed, or you with the oppressor. Of course social media reacted with mixed feelings to TI s post, while others felt he should have spoken to his so-called friend in private, other social media users said it was about time someone famous spoke out against Weezy-NONTOKOZO GXUMISA