THE last time Ajax Amsterdam technical director Marc Overmars was in the country, he proved to be a fine spin doctor as he shot down talk of an imminent split between Ajax Cape Town and the Dutch parent club. Both Overmars and Ajax financial director Jeroen Slop rubbished rumours that the Amsterdam side were about to end their 17-year association with the Urban Warriors.The Dutch club own 51% of the Cape side while the Efstathiou family has 49% control and rumours were that Ajax Amsterdam were intending to sell their controlling stake due to the souring of relations between the two parties. The Arsenal and Ajax legend, however, shot down the rumours but expressed reservations about the short supply of players from Cape Town to Ajax Amsterdam. Overmars said this week that they were looking to ensure that Ajax Cape Town were continuing the fine tradition of football development that Ajax have become renowned for. He also took a closer look at the crop of talent on the books of the Cape Town club. You can see that there is a lot of talent at the club. We have to support them all the way. They need assistance and guidance to become professional players. We have seen what we have to deliver to make the situation better, Overmars said then.Ajax maintain a close relationship with their parent club and such visits further strengthen ties and cooperation between the two football clubs. Overmars, however, certainly can t be happy with the present situation at the Warriors. They are still stuck in a rut following a terrible start to the season and are winless in eight matches.They host Maritzburg United at Cape Town Stadium looking to break their winless streak, having looked sharp during the international break. Ajax are yet to suffer a home defeat to Maritzburg in 10 matches, dating back to the 2005-06 season. Over the course of the last 20 matches between the two sides, Ajax have scored 24 goals, compared to 22 for the visitors.And new coach Stanley Menzo will naturally be eager to build on an unbeaten record that reads five wins and five draws in 10 matches in the Mother City. In the corresponding fixture last season, Ajax won 3-1 at home with a brace from Prince Nxumalo and the striker will be under pressure to continue his fine form against the Team of Choice.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha