Chippa United will move up on the log, if they are able to take points away from Maritzburg United on Tuesday night. The two teams will face off at the Harry Gwala Stadium in Kwazulu Natal with kick off at 7:30pm . Chippa United have been on a losing streak in the league, the most recent being a 1-0 defeat to Orlando Pirates. The Port Elizabeth side will want to make sure the trend doesn t continue. Assistant coach Mbuyiselo Sambu told the club&#8217;s website that they are ready for the encounter against the 9th placed United. &#8220;Preparations for the game have gone quite well. We have a training session again later today. We must improve quite number of things from our game against Orlando Pirates,&#8221; Sambu said. He said the squad worked on different formations, organisation, and patience with the players. Sambu said that the team has been performing but there were certain aspects that needed working on including player confidence. The former Chippa player also noted the injury list saying the squad has been changed a couple of times because of that, key players like Thamsanqa Sangweni, Andile Mbenyane and Vusi Mncube on the list. Known as &#8216;Viera&#8217; in his playing days, the Chippa second in charge says this is an opportunity for others to raise their hand. We are playing a tough side in Maritzburg and they will be looking to do well at home. We have our own objectives though going to this game and once again we will walk to the field with one objective to win and defend the Chippa United emblem, Sambu concluded. The Team of Choice who parted ways with their Head coach Ernst Middendorp after a 3-2 loss to Cape Town City will look to put that behind and force themselves into a top 8 position. On the coaching front, the KZN Midlands side are apparently in talks with Roger de Sa, Owen da Gama, who is the current Bafana Bafana assistant coach and Julio Leal. Last month De Sa parted ways with Ajax Cape Town following a run of poor results. He was a spectator when Maritzburg United lost to Eric Tinkler s City at Athlone Stadium. A good string of results will make the work of whomever takes over, at the KZN side, a little easier. A positive result on Tuesday will definitely do well for observing a team&#8217;s strengths. Additional Reporting Linda XimbaTNA Reporter