Imagine being with about 80 inmates crammed into a prison cell meant to hold 30 and being forced to share one stinking toilet?This is the fate that befell one Alfonso Morris (not his real name) who found himself incarcerated at the notorious Pollsmoor Prison.Morris was released on parole three months ago and is obviously delighted to be back in his home town of Heideveld on the Cape Flats, far away from the overwhelming stench of the once-shared toilet in his overcrowded prison cell.The 45-year-old habitual criminal, served closed to two years in the maximum security section of the prison for a spate of housebreakings, robberies and assault crimes. While in prison, he also signed up for the notorious 26s gang membership.Morris says no words can describe the gratifying feeling of enjoying a decent home-cooked meal, sleeping on a proper bed without lice, using a hygienic toilet and not having to watch your back all the time in case someone tried to attack you, as so often happens in prison where rival gang members fight over their turf.But since his release on parole the number was closed in prison and outside the prison the number doesn t mean a thing to him any more. I will never forget the day when I was handed a three-year sentence and my first day in Pollsmoor. I arrived in the Athlone police van and when we stopped at Pollsmoor there were three other vans from different courts there. We remained there with other awaiting trial prisoners for at least an hour before being escorted into reception. The area was packed with prisoners and the stench made me want to puke. I went to a toilet but I stopped in my tracks. From a distance the stench made it clear it hadn t been cleaned in ages. Before I was whisked away to my cell, all prisoners were made to strip naked and searched. Our final step before entering the hellhole was walking through a scanner looking for any metal objects or drugs hidden in our stomachs, he says. Passing through those doors made you realise the nightmare had only just begun and a series of hurdles and pitfalls lay ahead.The prison gang members belonging to the 28s, 26s and 27s await newcomers and ask the question: wie is jy (who are you), he says. Morris chose the 26s camp. Those who elected to be a Frans (girls) probably made a horrendous decision, because they are treated as slaves. Inmates entering Pollsmoor are told by gangsters that they have nothing do with the outside and they don t care what gang you belonged to before you entered the prison gates.New inmates are told to make a choice and decide which camp they want to belong. There were only about 30 beds in the cells I was locked up in. We were about 80 inmates inside that cell. The 26s, 28s and 27s were allowed to take the beds while the Frans slept on the floor. There are strict rules inside the cells where the number gangs rule. The number gangs get up at 4am every morning and shower before the wardens collect those who must go to court at about 5am. The Frans will get up at 2am to use the shower and make sure the shower is available when the 28s, 26s and 27s get up. If they break this rule they will get one hell of a beating early in the morning and if caught showering at 4am, they face the prospect of being sodomised. He said breakfast is a far cry from the appetising cornflakes with toast and coffee you are used to at home. Pollsmoor ain t a hotel, it s a hellhole. It took him some time to get used to four slices of bread with a little bit of peanut butter and jam on. After breakfast, it s time for cleaning the cells, watching TV and playing dominos and cards. Cleaning the stinking toilets and making up the beds are the duties of the Frans while the 27s, 26s and 28s play games and watch TV. This is how the Frans get protection and privileges from the numbers gang with whom they share a cell. A day inside Pollsmoor is like a year. Night starts at 4pm when the prison is on lock-down. These are the times you wish you were home and regret what you have done. Morris says the cells controlled by the numbers gangs adhere to strict rules and there is a rule that no one goes to bed until a problem is resolved. Fighting or any disputes are carried out during the day. Night is time to sleep and the wyfies to have a good time. But in the cells where the Franse who opted not to belong to the numbers gang, there is lawlessness, because there is no number to call the shots and to take control. In these cells you will find Americans, HL s, Dixie Boys and Junky Funky Kids who fight among themselves to gain the upper hand, he says.On why warders are often targeted and attacked, he says a lot of warders smuggle large quantities of drugs and money into prison. Any warder stepping out of line will be taken care of by the 27 s. Inside the prison walls an order will be given to take care of a warder or drug dealer, on the outside. Inside Pollsmoor you can buy cocaine, heroin, Mandrax or anything. But it s very expensive, sometimes twice the price you pay on the outside because corrupt warders must get their cut. Now, since he came back from prison, Morris is adhering to his strict parole conditions. Every day after 4pm, he sits at home patiently waiting for the Correctional Service Officer doing his rounds.Lessons learnt? I hope my chilling encounter of what awaits prisoners inside Pollsmoor might be a deterrent, especially to the youth to turn their backs on gangsterism and drugs.The life outside (prison) is a million times better than behind the prison walls, because once inside you are stripped of your dignity and exposed to a world that s indescribable. I have made several horrendous mistakes and been in prison and surely I don t want to go back. vincentc@thenewage.co.za