THE second edition of the annual Mahika Mahikeng Cultural Festival promises to be bigger and better this year.A four-day carnival awaits revellers and party-goers who want to unwind in Mahikeng next month.The festival is set to run from December 8-11 with activities at different venues across the provincial capital.Arts, culture and traditional affairs MEC Ontlametse Mochware unveiled the logo for the festival at the weekend and promised that Mahika Mahikeng is on course to become the most sought-after event on the country s arts calendar.Mochware said that on top of the usual music and dance events, there is a new addition in the form of a golf day to be played at the Leopard Park Course in Mahikeng.The music genre s include the popular motswako, afro soul and jazz.A cultural street carnival will set the ball rolling on December 8 and will take place in a number of selected streets. This is a free for all exercise meant to drum up support for the event.On December 9, the golf challenge follows and participants have to fork out R1000 for four balls. On the same day, there will be an Afro-soul festival at Mmabatho Stadium at 6pm followed by dance and drama at the Mmabana studio.The events will start at 6pm and 7pm and those who want to attend have to pay R100 and R70 respectively.Mochware said traditional dance will take centre stage on December 10 at the Mmabatho Civic Centre at 10am. This is followed by the Motswako Festival at Lotlamoreng Dam on the same day at 6pm. Members of the public pay R50 and R150 respectively for the two events. On December 11, there will be a simultaneous clap and tap and chorale festival at Mmabatho Civic Centre and a jazz festival at Lotlamoreng Dam, Mochware said.The MEC said Mahika Mahikeng will soon compete with some of the biggest festivals in the country. We want it to be on the calendar of all those who enjoy arts and culture so they know that when it comes to this time of the year, Mahikeng is the place to be. You will note that the list of events around the festival represents a wide range of genres that should suit every palate. It is meant to be a platform to showcase excellence in all the genres selected. These range from crafts to dance and music such as gospel, Afro-soul, our own motswako and jazz. Mochware said people should feel free to come to Mahikeng and enjoy the best of what the province offers. We invite people from all corners of the globe to come to Mahikeng for a weekend of festivities. It is the most perfect way to kick off the festive season. Artists who will be performing will be announced during the week.-ELFAS TORERAI