KNOWN for breaking new grounds on the culinary front, chef Lungile Nhlanhla says she s encouraged by the rise of female chefs in the country.The Durban-born cook says she s been male-dominated herself for a long time and she s now ready to show the world that women make as good as professional cooks as their male counterparts if not better . Its refreshing and inspiring to be able to mention names such as Siba Mtongana, Dora Sitole and others who continue to inspire young people that here is space for them too in the food industry, she told The New Age in a recent interview.Chef Lungile, as she s popularly known will be showcasing her culinary skills at the Essence Festival Durban this weekend.During the Essence Eats Culinary experience on Sunday, visitors will be taken on a culinary adventure of Durban s finest cuisine by top celebrity chefs who will conjure up a range of delectable meals that promises to appeal to the most jaded of palates.There will be Indian cuisine and African dishes as well as European treats to cater for everyone s tastebuds.A vital component to the culinary make-up of KwaZulu-Natal, Indian cuisine will be well served by CaneCutters restaurant, while Tati Kasi Grill, Max Lifestyle and Keys Group will provide tasty shisa nyama menus.Three establishments, Sondela Restaurant, Royal Kitchen and Food Expert Company, will serve a wide range of African cuisine sure to be a hit with both visitors and locals alike. Those who favour more European-style food will also be catered for with experiential dining of the highest order.Lungile said she s excited to be part of such as a world-class event boasting an unparalleled line-up of local and international chefs and eateries.Having studied fashion and textiles at the Durban University of Technology, Lungile says food has always been a big part of her life.Her foray into the professional world began in earnest when she took part in the 2012 inaugural season of the MasterChef SA after graduating from university. I always had a passion for cooking but it was after entering the first season of MasterChef that things started happening for me. I got to join Drum magazine as its assistant food editor and although it felt like I had been thrown in at the deep end, it enabled me in the end to learn a lot in a short space of time. After a while I felt like I needed to spread my wings and experience new challenges in life as a freelancer, she said.When not contributing her exceptional cooking skills to various food and beverage brands, these days you can find Lungile getting her hands dirty in the kitchen as owner of Durban s Lungi s Corner, which provides an array of food services such as recipe development, cooking classes for personal or corporate parties as well as live demonstrations at various food shows and hospitality exhibitions. At Lungi s Corner we pride ourselves in creating an elevated food experience, focusing not just on the food and service but all the details surrounding your requests, she said.To ensure her success in the kitchen and beyond, Lungile is studying food nutrition. Though I have not fully ventured much into fashion, it is something that I will eventually get around to doing. Right now I am still focused on growing my cooking brand. I like the fact that both are about expressing one s creativity which is something I am passionate about, she said.As for her approach to cooking, it s minimalist in nature , she said. I keep things simple. I try to develop menus that are not overly exaggerated yet elegantly made to achieve good flavours so that my food touches people s taste buds and emotions. -siyabongas@thenewage.co.za