MORE than half of the men interviewed for a study on gender violence in Diepsloot admitted to having either raped or beaten a woman in the last 12 months.The research by the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) and Sonke Gender Justice was conducted with 2 600 men in the settlement north of Johannesburg. It found 56% of the men interviewed, aged between 18 and 40, had violently abused a woman.Of these, 60% had committed multiple acts of violence. These levels of violence represent a state of emergency for women in Diepsloot. Our study shows this violence is caused by multiple factors. Most important are inequitable and harmful gender norms that grant a sense of permission to use violence against women. This is compounded by widespread trauma and mental health problems among many men, a high concentration of alcohol outlets and pervasive binge drinking, inadequate criminal justice system that does little to deter men s violence and an urban environment that contains many risks for women, the report read.This comes as the world observes 16 Days of Activism for no Violence against Women and Children, which started last Friday.According to 2015-16 police statistics 151 sexual offenses were reported between March 2015 and April, 494 cases of common assault were recorded and 776 cases of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm were recorded in Diepsloot.Abigail Hatcher, a senior lecturer at Wits, said it was never imagined the level of violence would be this high. She said they were trying to find ways of influencing policy at provincial and national level. We are going to be doing this for the next two years, working with the same men to see this intervention helps. We want to see if the prevention methods can bring about an improvement, she said.The research showed a strong association between men s own exposure to violence and the use of violence. The majority interviewed had experienced physical or sexual childhood abuse. More than a third had been raped or molested as a child and more than half of them experienced one or more adult traumas such as witnessing a rape or murder or being tortured, raped or robbed at gunpoint.-LILLIAN SELAPISA