POET, singer, scholar, social commentator and now general manager of the Soweto Theatre Nomsa Mazwai recently scored a distribution deal with Africorri, a music distribution channel.This development ensures that fans of the talented singer, also known musically as Nomisupasta, are not denied the opportunity of purchasing her new body of work from the shelves of major music outlets.The Sama winner recently spoke to The New Age about what the deal means for her as an independent artist. It s such an exciting partnership as this means my music will be available at some of the country s biggest music retailers, she said. This means I will make appearances at stores and doing CD signings and interviews, which is a difficult thing when you have no such partnership. The album, Nomisupasta, is a 13-track offering that features songs from her 2014 EP, with six new songs repackaged to bring out rhapsody-inspired compositions with traces of poetry.There is also plenty of social commentary that touches on corruption, politics and the ever-present subject of love. With music being made available digitally and artists opting to release singles instead of albums, the Soweto-born social commentator says she is happy to go against the grain. People still want to buy physical copies and for me this particular deal allows me the opportunity of releasing my music as an album, Mazwai said. With songs such as The Naked Emperor, Don t Throw In The Towel, and Little Girl, her poetic roots are unmistakable. I can t help it, my music is about making a statement and speaking out. If we do not speak out, we are giving corrupt officials a chance to take what belongs to us. Your money will be taken. Being independent also meant being able to dictate the terms of her own success, the 30-year-old said. Her unique, animated style of music has given Mazwai an autonomous path, away from the previous success of her two older sisters, Thandiswa and poet Ntsiki.Constant comparisons to older siblings could brake a spirit but for Nomisupasta it has allowed her to find her own voice. People sometimes fail to understand that we are three different individuals, Mazwai said. My outlook on life has always been positive, so any comparison people make, I look at it in a positive light rather than a negative one. After all, I am able to get advice from them to better myself and my career. There were times when I could not get a deal due to being compared to my sisters, and as a result I ended up being independent. Since winning the best African alternative music Sama in 2011, she has created a body of work that has made her a household name and one of the youngest theatre managers in the country.She has also collaborated with the likes of Black Coffee and for her new album Ghanaian rapper M.anifest.siyabongas@themewage.co.zaSIYABONGA SITHOLE