As the festive season approaches, the National Hijack Prevention Academy (NHPA) has released a list of hijacking hot spots in Johannesburg, Pretoria, Durban and Cape Town.The academy said the latest technology in cars had made it increasingly difficult for cars to be stolen, so had inadvertently resulted to an increase in hijackings. Johannesburg and Pretoria accounted for 57 of the 69 hot spots identified while the other two cities account for only 12 of the hot spots. In Cape Town nine were identified, while the other three were in Durban. The hijacker has the element of surprise and this is a concern. The increasing retrenchments and the high unemployment figures are also factors, spokesperson for the academy Melinda Brussow said. Data compiled by the academy between September 2014 and 2015 showed that hijackings reached a high on Fridays which was due to motorists becoming more relaxed and traffic increasing earlier on a Friday.The surveyed showed that the weekends had a lower hijacking rate. This could be attributed to syndicates checking their stock and placing orders for Mondays, and that there were fewer vehicles on the roads. This is easy earned money and the already well established syndicates will buy these vehicles from the hijacker. Vehicle hijacking is an organised business run according to business principles and based on thorough planning. Brussouw said motorists could use certain strategies to protect themselves from hijackers including being extra alert. Motorists have been warned to exercise vigilance when dropping off a passenger and ensuring that they are safely transferred into another car before driving off, adding that changing routes was important rather than following predictable routes. Criminals will be lurking at shopping malls, knowing that people will be doing their shopping and there may be valuables in their cars, or some of them forgetting to lock their cars or that someone could be driving a new car, police spokesperson Brig Selvy Mohlala said.He said criminals used various methods to get their victims, including leaving sharp objects on the road or bumping into their cars and forcing them to stop to get out of their car.Mohlala said criminals always capitalised on the weakness of the so called hot spots, like the lack of lighting or activity at certain intersections to make them their operating spots. Always have the police s emergency number 0800 10111 in hand to make sure that you can get help in whatever situation you may find yourself in, he said.Statistics show that hijackings have increased by 14.3% in Gauteng.snn4@thenewage.co.za