VKB Knights could top the log with a win over the Warriors in their Sunfoil Series match at St George s Park in Port Elizabeth if today s and other results go their way over the next four days.To reach the top, Bloemfontein-based Knights coach Nicky Boje has been boosted by the availability of Marchant de Lange who was rested during the rain-affected draw against the Dolphins last weekend. It is quite difficult when you have more than two-and-a-half days without cricket due to the rain, Boje said. We were disappointed, but it was out of our hands and we are now focussed on the Warriors and hopefully we can build on the start we ve made. It s an important game for all the teams because they ll want to finish off well going into the season break. The Knights go into the match yet to taste defeat, having won two and drawn two of their four matches so far.Warriors coach Malibongwe Maketa has continued to look at the positives ahead of the clash after they lost two of their four games this season, including a disappointing final day meltdown against Highveld Lions last weekend.On the bright side, they beat defending champions Titans and drew against the Cape Cobras, which means they are capable of playing good cricket. We have improved a lot in terms of execution from last season, he said. We worked very hard to try get better at four-day cricket but unfortunately in four-day cricket you can t afford to lose focus even for one moment. You have to be in it for every session, every delivery and that s what we now need to make sure we do. Maketa is expecting a tough challenge but wants his players to capitalise on home advantage in what is the final four-day match for the year before the CSA T20 Challenge takes centre stage. It s a good team they ve put together this season and it will be a big challenge for us. But we are at home and we need to make that count because it s the last game now before the break. Warriors Squad: Colin Ackermann, Tladi Bokako, Simon Harmer (captain), Gihahn Cloete, Clyde Fortuin, Aya Gqamane, Gionne Koopman, Edward Moore, Lesiba Ngoepe, Anrich Nortje, Somila Seyibokwe, Yaseen Vallie, Basheer Walters.Knights Squad: Tumelo Bodibe, Mbulelo Budaza, Theunis de Bruyn (captain), Marchant de Lange, Dillon du Preez, Michael Erlank, David Miller, Luthando Mnyanda, Tshepo Ntuli, Duanne Olivier, Robin Peterson, Rudi Second, Shadley van Schalkwyk.-TNA REPORTER