Nelson Mandela Bay municipality s internal audit department is processing 38 new investigations thanks to information received through the newly launched anti-corruption hotline. Following years of rampant looting and fraud, the new DA led coalition government in the Bay, under the leadership of executive mayor Athol Trollip, launched an anti-corruption hotline in October. Since then, we have received a total of 48 tip-offs, 38 of which have or will result in investigations, the details for which must remain confidential until findings are tabled in council, mayoral spokesperson Sibongile Dimbaza said.Of the total number reported, only seven tip-offs fall outside the municipal mandate have been referred to relevant authorities to institute investigations against the alleged perpetrators. It is clear that residents and municipal staff have taken this service into their confidence, given that each informant s identity is strictly protected and that this new administration is clearly serious about stopping corruption, Dimbaza said. The new political leadership has been hard at work to fulfil its promise of ridding the municipality of a deeply entrenched criminal culture that has over the last 20 years derailed many strategic projects worth billions. This is money that has been siphoned out of the municipal coffers by greedy municipal officials and their political allies from the previous administration, in turn ignoring the basic tenet that governs the municipality to provide basic services to all communities. He said that the fight against corruption has been intensified as the metro works towards making huge savings so that the municipality can deliver better services. We are working towards becoming the best-run metro in the country. Any form of criminal activity will not be tolerated and the fight for a corrupt-free municipality has been strengthened, Dimbaza said. We are working towards building a city on the foundations of freedom, fairness and opportunity for all. Londeka Dlaminiprovinces@thenewage.co.za