Police Minister Nathi Nhleko has asked the public protector to investigate newspaper reports that he had signed off a R30m tender.Nhleko said he had also written to President Jacob Zuma to inform him of the allegations. He has also asked the Public Service Commission to investigate the allegations against him.The R30m contract allegedly went to Indoni, a non-governmental organisation that reportedly belongs to Nomcebo Mthembu, who is said to be the minister s girlfriend.Asked about the nature of this relationship at a press briefing yesterday, Nhleko said: I m not going to talk about this relationship. I don t see what value this is to anyone. My feelings are my feelings. Your feelings are your feelings. But he underscored that the memorandum of understanding with Indoni was signed before he had been appointed Minister of Police.On media reports about the R30m, Nhleko said he had not reported the matter to the Press Ombudsman because he was not complaining about the report itself but about the allegation of what he had supposedly done. It s a serious allegation that you have a minister who signed off on R30m. You cannot but have that (allegation) investigated. What if it were true? You commissioned public funds to the tune of R30m for your private interest? He said the R30m had supposedly come from the budget of the police civilian secretariat. However, this body s overall budget was R6m. At the time when he allegedly paid the R30m, there was only R1.5m left of the R6m. It s not possible to pay out R30m out of R1.5m. It s not possible that you can have a Minister who signs off. It s quite essential and critical that this matter be clarified, Nhleko said.Asked if he would take legal action, Nhleko said he did not think he was there yet. I prefer not to comment on legal action or any other steps that I will take. If there are steps that I will take you will certainly know. Nhleko also scoffed at reports that he had asked a member of the Hawks to investigate the head of the Independent Police Investigative Directorate, Robert McBride.He said he did not know why he would want McBride investigated. It just doesn t make sense. Operationally it s not within purview of a Minister that you would go to an investigator and say: I want you to investigate so and so . It just doesn t make sense. Why would I have an interest to investigate him for something that allegedly happened in 2007? For me, it doesn t make sense that I would have given those instructions. For me, an allegation such as this must be tested. I would hope at some time we would reach that particular point where somebody can tell me to my face you instructed me to investigate , he said.Nhleko confirmed that the relationship between him and McBride was virtually non-existent.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za