There are several situations in life that makes a person lose out on their self-esteem and thereby affect their confidence. However, no matter how extreme the problems are, one should maintain their sanity, and try confidence-boosting exercises. We tell you of the various ways.Wear a carefree attitude A straight posture with a bright smile are important tools to get started. Even if you are not that strong from within, pretend to be strong. Be helpful, but not giving, be loving, but never submissive. Make sure you wear the most confident and carefree self always; take risks and correct people when wrong. Look in the eye while you talk and nod as you listen, show that you do not care what the world thinks about you. Lastly, accept criticism gracefully, but don&#8217;t let it pull you down.Praise yourself Stand before the mirror every morning and take notice of all the good things about you. Dress well, and make sure you are at your presentable best every day. Encourage compliments, but always express your gratitude with confidence. Let your ideal answer to a compliment be as simple as, &#8216;Thank you, I know.&#8217; Indulge in a lot of self-talk, but without sounding like you are bragging. Stop disliking everything about you; instead boost yourself with a lot of positive energy.List down your strengths You might have more failures than successes. Everyone does. But weigh your high notes more than the downfalls. List down your strengths, and always go back to them whenever you are feeling low. Include both professional and personal achievements of your life. You might have lost track of them over the years, but just a glance at all your achievements will make you realise how fabulous a person you are.Choose your company A great deal of your confidence-boosting exercise depends on the people around you. Make sure you always have good company who not only understand you, but are always there to cheer you up when you feel low. Be it friends, family or colleagues, you must have a bunch of positive people around. They have an immense power of boosting your confidence, since they are the ones who appreciate and cherish these qualities within you.Indulge in some &#8216;me&#8217; time If not every day, one should spend some &#8216;me&#8217; time at least four to five times a week. Spending some time alone will help you understand and develop certain abilities. In fact, it works wonders in times of crisis since it helps you come out with out-of-the-box solutions. Doing things that you are passionate about works positively to build your confidence. Anything like pampering yourself at a spa or salon, reading or just sitting by yourself and smiling can go a long way in making you a positive person.This article first appeared on The Times of India