As rape rates skyrocket, perhaps this year it is time to reevaluate our strategy to combat violence against womenAs we begin 16 Days of Activism and social media, radio and television are again abuzz with stories, opinions and outrage over the seemingly never-ending scourge of violence against women and girls, I ask myself the question: is there really hope in sight? Will this unsanctioned war on women s bodies ever come to an end?Rape and other forms of violence against women (VAW) remain notoriously high in South Africa. Although actual statistics are not known, it is estimated that more than 40% of South African women will be raped in their lifetime, that only 1 in 4 rapes are reported and that only 14% of these result in convictions.Furthermore, a recent national mortuary-based study revealed that a woman is killed every six hours by an intimate partner in South Africa while domestic violence remains an everyday occurrence for many women in the country.I recall an earlier comment made a few years ago by Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga during one of the New Age Business Briefing meetings: Women in South Africa live in constant fear of being attacked at any time. If you drive at night you don t just think about being hijacked, but being raped and killed as well, she said.This couldn t be truer. The fear and threat of rape for many women in SA is a daily reality. As we walk down by-ways on the way home, make use of public restrooms at the mall, park our cars in dimly lit basement garages at work, the fear of violence is real.Prof Pumla Gqola in her recently published book, Rape: A South African Nightmare, refers to the female fear factory , all the ways in which women are made to feel consistently fearful, and public threats of violence and widespread sexual harassment in public spaces are part of it.The factory is nurtured on a daily basis through the ways in which we socialise our girls and boys and, in the process, uphold deeply entrenched patriarchal norms and practises.This everyday fear has generated moments of deep anger and acts of rebellion from women. It is in seeking to find power and reason within that state of fear that drives some of us to strip off our clothes and burn our bras when we can no longer stand the continued rape culture in our society and in our own homes.Violence in the private and public spaces is a reality that the system has taught us to live with. Our perpetrators are not only those who are strangers to us, but are sometimes our very own family members, partners and friends. In fact, most research suggests that women are more likely to be raped by men they know well than strangers or acquaintances.VAW is real, in both public and private spaces and more needs to be done in order to address it.As we begin this year s 16 Days of Activism, instead of holding commemoration events we need to take a moment for introspection.We need to be asking the tough questions: what has been the impact of the many interventions and approaches we have been developing and implementing over the years? What changes have these brought about to women s lives? What happened to the National Council against Gender-based Violence? Where is this year s 365 Day Plan for No Violence against Women and Girls? Will this year s commemorations also be about big meetings to re-hash the same rhetoric?The Ministry of Women in the Presidency s Office has made plans to hold dialogue meetings to discuss violence against women in all Provinces in the country, beginning with a launch in Limpopo on November 25 of this year.I want to remain optimist about this intervention. Firstly, these dialogues need to provide us with the time and space for reflection and evaluation of past and existing strategies to address VAW. Secondly, the meetings must provide a platform for government to truly listen and hear women s voices.If the government and non-governmental organisations have worked tirelessly in the past years with little success, perhaps it is time to engage more with women in local communities and to allow for a greater exchange of ideas and strategies to end the victimisation of women.Women in SA cannot continue to live in fear. Violence against women affects us all and we need to take action now and throughout the year to eliminate VAW in all its forms.-Nonhlanhla SibandaNonhlanhla Sibanda is a gender specialist at the Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation