Bafana Bafana may not have been at their best when they edged Senegal 2-1 in their World Cup qualifier on Saturday, but captain Hlatshwayo feels the win has boosted their confidence going forward.Hlatshwayo, who scored Bafana s opener from a spot kick at Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday, highlighted an area which he feels will need improvement in their next matches.Bafana have struggled to protect their lead in recent matches and nearly had to settle for a draw on Saturday as Senegal piled on the pressure towards the end. Obviously, for the last two games it s been difficult to protect our lead and we do speak as players that we need to push up, because the more we are trying to protect the lead, the more we go deeper and the more we invite pressure on ourselves, Hlatshwayo said. I think what we couldn t do right is press the ball and we were forced to go deep. The coach always advises us that we shouldn t play offside traps and we have to make sure we go one on one and that s what we did at times against Senegal. The Bidvest Wits defender said Bafana executed their game plan well and are pleased that they got all three points at home. We knew what we were up against and we know Senegal, because we have played them before. We knew that if we punish them in the first half, they will come at us and that s what they did. I think as a team, as a whole, we handled the situation very well despite their physical presence. They are taller than us, but we handled the situation well. Hlatshwayo said they knew Senegal would look to play the aerial ball and it is something they had worked on at training last week. Yes, this game was important not just to us, but the country as well so we wanted the result. We knew they were going to pump up the balls and what we didn t do right was we didn t put pressure on the supply. It is something that we ve been working on as a team. Bafana will play Mozambique tomorrow in a friendly match with coach Shakes Mashaba expected to make changes for the match.Neville Khozanevillek@thenewage.co.za