YOGA is described as a group of physical, mental and spiritual practices or disciplines which trace its origins to ancient India.Yoga has over the years shifted from being faith-based to be a more secular and lifestyle related outlet for many of its practitioners.The New Age recently spoke to Mandisa Mdluli who runs yoga fitness classes in Johannesburg under Yoga Fitness. The former civil engineer specialises in vinyasa yoga, an active and athletic style of yoga which pays particular attention to the coordination of body movements.She says the art of yoga holds many benefits among them health,anti-ageing and general wellness. Each benefit depends on the individual and the particular ailments or needs that they have.Physically, yoga improves your flexibility, builds strength,increases your energy and aids with weight loss. It also improves one s athletic performance and bone density, Mdluli said.In addition, yoga improve respiratory health, immune system,cardiovascular health and gives you greater mobility for your body, while on a mental level, yoga improves your endurance. It s really about mind over matter.It increases your focus and the desire to improve on oneself, reduces stress,improves concentration and levels of anxiety. Once all the above improves, your intuition heightens allowing your perspective on life to grow, she said.Spiritually,Mdluli said yoga allows people to connect with who they really are. It allows you to find stillness and peace, it brings a sense of calmness which allows you to relax while reducing stress, she said.Mdluli says her life has changed tremendously, which is one of the reasons she chose the mat over an engineering career. It has made me feel more empowered, it may sound silly but I now know who Mandisa is.The way I do things now, it sall about passion and connecting things through the power of love.Physically, I m stronger and more flexible and mentally my mind is more creative, she said.Mdluli says she is far more confident and believes yoga has the power to change the lives of many other young men and women out there. Yoga brings a sense of community and unity. It helps people connect a little better to themselves and the world because a lot of people seem to operate on autopilot.It will improve their sex lives, their family lives and relationships they develop with other people, she said.As a seasoned instructor Mdluli overseas small, medium and large groups and individuals raring to get their daily dose of fun, health and spiritual benefits. All types of groups pose different benefits to both the student and the teacher.Small groups and one on one are great for those looking to improve on certain goals they want to achieve in yoga with the teacher on a personal capacity. It s amazing to see testimonies from these groups once they share their growth both on and off the mat.Larger groups are always intimidating yet really enjoyable to teach too. There is such a variety of different body types to learn from and so much beautiful energy moving together in one place, at a particular point in time, you can t not love that, she said.While there are more than 15 types of yoga, the fitness and health fanatic says an eye-opening gym experience led her to vinyasa yoga and the rest, as they say, is history.She soon enrolled for yoga classes before taking the plunge quitting her engineering job to become an instructor. I chose it (power/vinyasa yoga)because it s energetic and you really get to feel like you are working on your body, on all levels. The more you get into the practice, you get to flow and create a sequence to a slow dance, it s amazing on all levels.My specialities are strong flows, flexibility and pushing you past your boundaries, she saidsiyabongas@thenewage.co.zaSIYABONGA SITHOLE