Fidel Castro was looked upon as a beacon of hope in Africa s struggle for independence, says President Jacob Zuma.Speaking in Havana at the funeral of the former president of Cuba, President Zuma paid tribute to the South American leader, saying many liberation movements across the African continent were inspired by the ideals and values Castro exemplified in his fight to liberate the Cuban people. The deep and underlying special relationship between Cuba and Africa was cemented by the blood of heroic Cuban soldiers who paid the supreme sacrifice for their belief in anti-imperialism, freedom and justice, Zuma said.He praised Castro s unwavering support towards African liberation movements. Cuba deployed close to half a million soldiers and officers in Africa to support the struggles for national independence or against foreign aggression, over 30 years. In particular, Cuba s Angolan intervention stands out as &#8230; an example of international solidarity that changed the course of history. Zuma praised Castro for his sense of altruism with regard to Cuba s diplomatic relations with African states. We salute Comrade Fidel for his selfless sacrifice. Cuba was not looking for gold, diamonds or oil in Africa. The Cubans only wanted to see freedom and an end to the treatment of Africa as a playground of powerful nations while people suffered. Addressing South Africa s parliament in 1998, Comrade Fidel said about the Cuban soldiers in Africa: From the African land in which they worked and fought voluntarily and selflessly, they only took back to Cuba the remains of their fallen comrades and the honour of having fulfilled their duty. Zuma, making reference to the fight towards the alleviation of poverty in Africa, said that Castro served as a reminder that the plight of humanity s poor people could not be left unchallenged. Most significantly, we will remember Comrade Fidel as a great fighter for the ideal that the poor have a right to live in dignity. That is why the Cuban revolution was and still remains an inspiration to South Africa and the world on how to achieve a better life for the poor. Zuma also lauded the medical training programme between South Africa and Cuba. Today Cuba has a higher health standard than many developed countries. It has sent thousands of its doctors to many parts of the world. South Africa has gained many Cuban doctors. In addition, many of our youth have qualified as medical practitioners in Cuba and many are continuing to study in this country. TNA REPORTERnews@thenewage.co.za