In discussing the mini budget Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan said that you cannot change a country s economic outlook by fiscal measures only.I agree entirely. He went on to say that the only true way forward is to strive for national growth. He elaborated by saying that national growth needs national confidence and also a spirit of national cooperation.I am a scientist, a nuclear physicist and I don t claim to be any sort of expert in national finance, but I was very pleased to hear such opinions from the finance minister.In science one can have dreams and then try to make dreams come true. Dreams can start out as wild dreams but then one has to apply some basic science calculations to get closer to realism. When realism starts to say that is possible, you then continue with the next round of dreams, those which start to target what is really possible.At this stage one can do very broad-brush financial calculations, but it is impossible to do very accurate financial calculations, because you don t know exactly what it is that you are trying to calculate.OK, with that start let me give a real example. Consider the space programme, the project to land men on the moon.Decades and decades ago people looked at the moon and dreamed of flying there. Children s story books were written about it. Then about 50 years ago scientists found that technology was advancing such that they could do real physics and maths calculations about really getting to the moon. These rough calculations came to the attention of the American president of the time, John F Kennedy.Kennedy then shocked the scientific community by announcing in 1962 that a moon landing would take place before the end of the decade . After a huge effort the scientists succeeded and man landed on the moon in 1969. That was the result of massive cooperation and national pride.Gordhan is right. South Africa needs cooperation and national pride to reach its goals.A beautiful target to work for is the dream project on our doorstep, the new giant nuclear power programme.We are now much further ahead in our nuclear project than the Americans were in their space project when Kennedy said: Go for it. The South African nuclear build project is one of the largest nuclear projects in the world. Let us be proud of that. Let s do it. Let s do it well. Let s do it really profitably.Let us look at this whole thing. South Africans will build the nuclear plants, not foreigners. In the near future, if you stand on a nuclear construction site and look around you will see South Africans everywhere. They will be driving the bulldozers, laying the concrete foundations, laying the piping and cables, doing the land surveying, widening the access roads and the list goes on.South Africa will work in collaboration with one or more foreign partners. The people who supply the nuclear reactor plans need not be the same people who supply the stream turbine plans. South Africans will decide how the whole lot fits together. We will not be at the mercy of some foreign government. Our professionals know what they are doing.Let us go back nearly half a century. The time is when the Koeberg nuclear power station was built. Back then it was South Africans who were seen on the building site. Our guys did it. Golly, if we could do it then why do some people doubt that we can do it now? In fact, second time around we will be even better.Bear in mind that Koeberg has operated very successfully for more than 30 years now, an achievement to be proud of. Right now Koeberg nuclear power plant supplies Eskom with its cheapest electricity. Yes, Eskom s cheapest electricity right now is nuclear. So why do people claim that new nuclear will be so expensive. Where s the logic?OK, I don t want to be accused of lacking logic so let us go through this carefully. Nuclear power is built to very careful quality standards. Nuclear plants also have high precision systems. They have systems, backup systems, maintenance systems and all sorts of other stuff to make sure that everything works perfectly. This costs money. By the way, many of those complex systems will be built and installed by South Africans.So the capital cost of a nuclear power station is higher than for, say, a coal power station. But there is a very beneficial trade off. Nuclear fuel is inexpensive and reliable in comparison to coal or oil. A major reason is that so little nuclear fuel is needed. There is a mighty kick inside an atom of uranium. So 20 to 30 years of nuclear fuel for a big nuclear power station, will fit inside a bus shed. Six months of coal for a large coal station will bury the entire bus shed.Even if the uranium price doubles it makes little difference, because so little is used. A piece of uranium as big as a golf ball will supply one person with all their electricity for their whole lifetime. In contrast, if the price of oil or coal doubles then that is a major impact on a coal or oil power station.Now back to the finance minister s confidence and cooperation plea.We need the confidence to believe that our country is going places, so we need to double our electricity consumption. Electricity consumption, worldwide, is a direct indicator of standard of living and of personal income of citizens. More electricity means a better life, no arguments about that.Nuclear power provides big power. We are talking of the power to drive electric trains, mines, harbours, factories so we need nuclear.So we have to build a number of nuclear plants. Right now the plan is to build three nuclear plants each with two or three reactors per power station. To get all this right we need national cooperation, as Gordhan said. So different types of companies have to work together.The concrete people and the pipes people and the electrical people they all have to collaborate. So they don t need wildcat strikes every day or so. A minor strike in one link of the chain can have a cascade effect down the line so that the eventual cost of even a small strike can be big.We want the teams to want to work together, to cooperate. We don t want one group waiting until construction in their area is at a critical point and then going on strike because they know that they then have a knife at the throat of the rest of the team.Imagine if two Mamelodi Sundowns players, one hour before the big game in Egypt, sat down and said that they refused to play unless they got new cars right now!They would probably have got the cars, but not the admiration and respect of the rest of the players, or South Africa for that matter. There has been far too much of this sort of attitude at the Medupi and Kusile construction sites. Eskom engineers say that they have learned a few expensive lessons there and don t plan to experience the same pain again. I hope that they did learn, loud and clear. So what about all the job creation? If we cooperate and have confidence in ourselves we will maximise the job opportunities.There is nothing in the entire job spectrum of the whole nuclear programme that South Africans do not understand. We have world class welders, world class machinists and toolmakers, world class boilermakers by the way boilermakers don t just make boilers, it is a highly mathematical job in which they have to do metals calculations to get various parts to fit. The country does not have enough of them, or toolmakers, or welders, or other skilled jobs.The nuclear power project needs thousands of highly skilled people to work all over the country, not just at the construction site.Parts and assemblies will be fabricated all over the country. The fabricated components do not have to be large, they can be very small. The skilled craftsmen just have to do a very good job in a spirit of cooperation and collaboration.There is an export market waiting. There are now 500 reactors in the world, either being built or operating and needing spare parts and maintenance. More are coming. The world is waiting.So as Gordhan says, have the national confidence to have the vision to build national growth. Believe me, Pravin Gordhan wants as many companies and individuals to be as successful and profitable as possible, because then he can come and tax you. Then he can stop adding more tax on beer. See what can come out of the correct dreams, with confidence and collaboration.Kelvin KemmDr Kelvin Kemm is CEO of Nuclear Africa and chairperson of the Nuclear Energy Corporation of South Africa (Necsa)