More than 400 healthcare workers in the North West have been trained in the use of contraceptive implants in an effort to tackle unplanned teenage pregnancies.Ratlou local municipality, in particular, is dealing with high levels of teenage pregnancy, with girls as young as 11 becoming mothers and dropping out of school.It emerged in August this year that more than 2000 underage girls in Ratlou had fallen pregnant.North West health spokesperson Tebogo Lekgethwane said the department was embarking on educational campaigns to teach birth control and about the problems associated with child pregnancy. The department of health is implementing the new contraception and fertility policy guidelines, which recommend long-lasting contraception, Lekgethwane said. More than 400 health professionals were trained on the insertion of the subdermal implant, which lasts for three years and thus reduces clinical visits. It is also easily reversible. The matchstick-sized contraceptive implant is placed under the skin on the inside of the upper arm and has been available for about two years in South Africa.The socio-economic issues affecting Ratlou range from joblessness, poverty and high levels of illiteracy.With 42% of the municipality s population out of work, many residents have been forced to rely on social grants and part-time employment to make ends meet.Provincial social development spokesperson Petrus Siko said teen mum programmes would be set up. The department will set up groups with school children to deal with teenage pregnancy through school and social work programmes, he said. The department will establish groups with expectant mothers from clinics and health centres. The department will establish parenting groups where social workers will provide psychosocial support services to the identified centres. Siko said private companies had stepped in to assist, with one company planning a housing project and another offering financial literacy lessons. Some households in one of the worst affected villages, Mareetsane, have been offered help and a number of measures have been put in place to assist young mothers, he said. The social workers have given psychosocial services to the identified teenage mothers. Seven clinical cases have been opened. Counselling and support is given to the affected young mothers in Ratlou. More than 62 households in Mareetsane village were given material assistance, which also included food parcels. Siko said the department identified high rates of poverty, illiteracy and poor parenting as some of the major contributing factors behind the high rate of teenage pregnancy. High poverty levels force girls to assume responsibilities at an early age and compromise their values, which leads to early pregnancy and communicable diseases, he said.Siko said child neglect was also a contributing factor to teenage pregnancy. There are instances of child neglect in many cases. Children are not supervised properly. They end up being vulnerable and susceptible to sexual, financial and emotional abuse. The cycle of poor school attendance is not broken because most parents are not educated. There is no one in the family who encourages the children to take education seriously, Siko said.Zodidi Mhlanazodidim@thenewage.co.za