IT WOULD seem each day brings more reason to celebrate for Mamelodi Sundowns, while also ushering in more exciting possibilities to prepare for. Sundowns are preparing for their next match against Highlands Park on Sunday (3.30pm) and the Club World Cup in Japan next month while also celebrating their 3-0 league win over Golden Arrows at Loftus Versfeld on Wednesday night.The Brazilians are also celebrating four of their key players, Denis Onyango, Khama Billiat, Hlompho Kekana and Keegan Dolly, making the cut for the CAF player of the year award for players based in Africa. What the team is also excited about is Kekana s long range effort while on national duty against Cameroon making the top 10 of the Fifa Puskas award for goal of the year. Mosimane, who has one eye on Sunday s clash against Gordon Igesund s stubborn Highlands Park at Loftus Versfeld, has backed a player out of the quartet to win the player of the year award after scooping PSL awards in the past season. We dominated the PSL awards last year and kept the same momentum in the CAF competition. It s good to see four of my players there, but Rainford Kalaba is also there. He did well with TP Mazembe in winning the Confederation Cup. He scored top goals and he knows I like him but I want one of my players to win, Mosimane said. It will be good to see a South African win that award because it has not happened before. It will also be great if South Africans can vote for Hlompho to go a step further in that Fifa Puskas award. My players are in a good space and have received their bonuses for winning the Champions League. I am impressed also with their clear victory over Arrows. That shows maturity and it was impressive to watch. The former Bafana Bafana coach, who has stated categorically that he would not be returning to the national team even if the position became available again, gave a hint of team selection to come. Players such as Asavela Mbekile, Themba Zwane, Teko Modise, Thabo Nthethe and Lucky Mohomi are likely to get a rare run, while Tiyani Mabunda, Wayne Arendse and Anthony Laffor could be rested.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane