Good teachers should be regarded as marathon champions, because in this business you sure need staying power.This was said by education MEC Debbie Sch fer during the annual Western Cape Teaching Awards last week. Perhaps mixed with the steeplechase, because while you are running you have to overcome numerous obstacles along the way, she said. I cannot believe that another year has flown by and we are once again meeting at this wonderful ceremony to acknowledge our excellent teachers at this, the 17th annual provincial teaching awards ceremony. This year s theme, Our teachers, Our Olympians, is a fitting tribute to our excellent teachers who are indeed our country s champions. And I think it is equally fitting that we celebrate this every year and not every four years. The difference is that our Olympians don t get four years to train for the main race. You are running the race every day, often against extreme odds. And on that note I would like to draw attention to a quote by an international education speaker Barbara Coloroso. If kids come to us from strong, healthy, functioning homes it makes our job easier. If they do not come from strong, healthy, functioning families, it makes our job more important. I think our good teachers should be regarded as our marathon champions, because in this business you sure need staying power. But I know that those who are being honoured here tonight do all of this because they know that every child in our beautiful country deserves a champion. Sch fer said the provincial department of education celebrated excellence in teaching.She said the provincial government honoured outstanding educators who have gone above and beyond the call of duty. They are those who inspire and motivate our children every day, Sch fer said. There is a saying that a person who is appreciated will always do more than what is expected. Tonight we are here to appreciate you, because you have done more than expected. There are many champions and great leaders among us tonight, not only because you have done great things but because you have ensured that the pupils in your care have gone on to do great things. The role of a teacher in a child s life cannot be overemphasised. Each child is a blank canvas and the teachers who have pupils in their care every day make a mark that can never be erased. 