The money owed by former public protector Thuli Madonsela for repairs to a state vehicle crashed by her son in 2012 will be deducted from her gratuity.Public protector spokesperson Kgalalelo Masibi yesterday confirmed a letter had been written to Madonsela requesting her to pay about R750000 for the repairs to the BMW X6. The money will be deducted from her gratuity. The public protector contacted G-Fleet to get the itemised bill for the repairs from the panel beater, which it submitted, Masibi said.According to a finance department source at the public protector s office, Madonsela will get her gratuity, in the region of R4m, early next year.Masibi said Madonsela had indicated that she would formally respond to the letter requesting her to pay for the cost of the repairs but to date she had not responded.Efforts to get comment from her were fruitless.Madonsela has previously claimed she was cleared of any wrongdoing in the matter by the auditor-general and G-Fleet, something both deny. Both the AG and G-Fleet found that I had not authorised the use of the car. No one has told me they now intend to hold me liable and on what basis they seek to do so, Madonsela said recently.She also said authorisation had not been sought from her to deduct anything from her gratuity. This is the first time I learn of such intention. I have no idea on what basis or authority that would be done, she said in October.Her son, Wantu, 27, drove into the garden wall of a house on Lucky Bean Crescent near Moreleta Park in Pretoria.According to the judges handbook, which applies to the public protector, her son could only drive it when she was a passenger in the car.An official at the public protector s office this week revealed that they had received complaints against her about the car issue.Last week, a senior manager (name withheld) issued an instruction to an investigator that a letter be written to complainants saying an investigation was ongoing. The senior manager then ordered that the file be closed. We have received complaints regarding the former public protector and we are told a senior manager issued an instruction that a letter be written to say it s an ongoing matter and the file be closed thereafter. This is not protocol. It should be investigated just like any other case, the official said.A more senior source said the manager in question was unlikely to allow the probe to go on as she was a known Madonsela loyalist. They were very close, she will block it. 