Now that you&#8217;ve planned and made up your mind to get pregnant, you wish it happens as soon as possible! However, don&#8217;t get impatient if it takes time. There are a couple of things you should do and some things that you should avoid to increase your chances.1. Know your cycle. Knowing your cycle is the most important thing one should consider if you want to get pregnant fast. It gives you a fair idea about your ovulation cycle and when is the best time to conceive. A mucus-like watery discharge and changes in cervical mucus can be a good indication of ovulation.2. Does position matter? There are a lot myths associated with sex positions when it comes to getting pregnant. It&#8217;s often said that missionary position is better than the doggy position. It&#8217;s a myth! According to doctors, one must take up that sex position, which makes the couple feel good.3. Lying down after intercourse Okay! This might sound a bit futile but it actually works. Lying down in the bed after sex for about 10-15 minutes eases the movement of sperm entering the cervix. Also, avoid going to bathroom during this course and let that sperm flow easily.4. Get a Pre-pregnancy checkup Our bodies are unique and some of us might have birth defects like spina bifida. Don&#8217;t panic! Get a check up done before you start trying for pregnancy and ask your doctor for prenatal vitamins containing folic acids. It protects you from those birth defects and makes you sexually healthy enough to conceive.5. De-stress Stress can be a nemesis to not only mental health but also physical health. Causing performance anxiety in men, stress can hinder the conceiving process. In order to avoid stress, indulge in activities that soothe you. Be it through music, meditation or any breathing exercise; get rid of that stress and notice the difference.6. Ditch the birth control Taking birth control pills for a long time can hinder the natural ovulation process. Even after stopping consumption of those pills, your body can take some time to gain that normal hormonal level. Consult your doctor regarding the birth control method you have been adopting and the reversal time it might take to get the ovulation process back.7. Quit smoking and alcohol Do you smoke or drink? Quit it right away! It is the worst a woman can do while trying to get pregnant. Also, chuck the intake of caffeine from your diet. Consumption of these items can be your enemy in the process of conceiving.8. Reduce weight Though it might sound completely irrelevant, but reducing even a little weight can make a big difference. If considerably obese, one must try to shed some weight as it will ameliorate the prospects of conceiving.This article first appeared on The Times of Media