The Johannesburg emergency services has expressed concern at the rising number of incidents where emergency service personnel are being held up at gunpoint when responding to emergency calls.On Tuesday night, three paramedics were robbed at gunpoint responding to a call at Lawley, south of Johannesburg.City of Joburg EMS spokesperson Nana Radebe said: Due to the area being an informal settlement with no addresses, the paramedics had to discuss a meeting area where there was a shop or a known building in the area. When they got there to meet the person who called, there were two other people with guns, Radebe said.She said the paramedics were made to lie on the floor and their belongings were taken from them. This is not the first time this has happened and it seems like it s growing. As part of protecting paramedics, we have installed panic buttons for them to press when they do not feel safe. We have also established hot spots and when there are calls in those areas, paramedics are accompanied by police, Radebe said.She said the victims were not hurt but were traumatised and will be receiving counselling. We urge communities to protect paramedics because they are there to help them by rendering emergency services, she said.Last month, two ER24 women paramedics were robbed of cash and cellphones at Howick Falls in KZN. The paramedics, aged 27 and 35, were on standby for call-outs when they were accosted by a knife-wielding man.ER24 paramedics have fallen victim to at least 17 attacks and robberies, including the Howick incident, in the past two years alone. Most of the incidents have taken place at accident scenes.Earlier this year, three paramedics were also held at gunpoint in Yeoville, Johannesburg.ER24 spokesperson Chitra Bodasing, said paramedics were increasingly facing situations in which their lives were under threat. Attacks on paramedic crews have been going on for a long time. Crimes committed against them started increasing a few years ago, Bodasing said.In an effort to safeguard its staff, ER24 launched an Emergency Medical Support in Hostile Environments course in 2011.Harduth said ER24 was also working with the police to keep up to date with trends and crime hot spots to improve the safety of staff.Attacks on emergency crews also threatened the lives of those needing medical attention. Vandalising or stealing emergency vehicles means fewer vehicles are available in case of an emergency. This ultimately increases the risk to patients, Bodasing said.Nondumiso Zwanenondumisoz@thenewage.co.za