THE international friendly between Banyana Banyana and Zimbabwe in Harare this afternoon will have no significant impact on either team when they meet again in the Women s Africa Cup of Nations later this month in Cameroon, says midfielder Refiloe Jane. Banyana and Zimbabwe are in Group A with Egypt and hosts Cameroon in the 12th edition of the tournament.Desiree Ellis side will open their campaign against neighbours Zimbabwe on November 19 at Stade de Yaounde. Jane said Banyana, who are using the match as a preparatory exercise, are not going to give away their secrets in this afternoon s friendly. The match against Zimbabwe will be an exercise for us. We know that we will be playing them in the opening game of the Cup of Nations, Jane said. It is not going to be easy. There are a lot of aspects that we will have to take into consideration because you don t want to go there and give away everything and have no aces left when the tournament starts. For me, it is a two way thing to play Zimbabwe.&nbsp; We can play them using different players, knowing that the team that we are going to use in the tournament would not have been the team that played in the friendly. We can also use the first team and try out new combinations that we will use going forward. Banyana have already played Egypt in a friendly, winning 3-1.While that is a huge confidence booster, Jane expects both Egypt and Zimbabwe to be a lot tougher when the tournament starts next week. The teams that we are going to play against have been preparing well. We just need to adopt a one game at a time approach and hopefully we will get better results than we got in the previous campaign. The 24 year old said Banyana will miss veteran midfielder Amanda Dlamini, who asked to be excluded from the squad, citing personal reasons. She is an amazing person on and off the field. There is not doubt that we will miss her. We will try to take what we ve learnt from her and use it in our games. nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza