Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa s announcement yesterday of a proposed R3500 minimum wage has received mixed reactions.Parliament s labour portfolio committee has welcomed the announcement.Portfolio committee chairperson Lumka Yengeni said as an entry-level this amount would save the most vulnerable workers from further exploitation. The committee appreciates the opportunity granted by the deputy president for all stakeholders to discuss the proposal. The opportunity is for further consultation on the proposed figure. During the nationwide public hearings on the national minimum wage, different figures were raised by the public, Yengeni said in a statement yesterday.The investigation into introducing a national minimum wage came as a result of President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address in February 2014.He delegated this task to Ramaphosa.Yengeni said the proposed figure allowed for further consultation since Ramaphosa has submitted the report to all the social partners at the National Economic Development and Labour Council. The social partners will then take this proposal to their constituencies for further discussions. Parliament will also need to discuss the proposed figure. The panel itself was widely consultative and took into consideration the country s economy, Yengeni said.Unsurprisingly, the ANC welcomed the announcement. We believe this goes a long way to giving effect to the electoral mandate to the ANC government to introduce a national minimum wage. The panel s report provides a clear way forward for the conclusion of a social compact between social partners under the guidance of Nedlac. Now that a quantum has been proposed, Nedlac constituencies need to have an opportunity to engage with the proposals contained in the report including the proposed level of the minimum wage. We welcome the statement from Nedlac s Committee of Principals, led by the deputy president, that the South African public is actively involved in the consultation process as represented at Nedlac and also taking into account the public participation process led by the labour portfolio committee in Parliament, the ANC said in a statement.However, the Gauteng chapter of the Young Communist League of South Africa (YCLSA) described the proposal as an insult and urged the ANC to withdraw its support.The YCLSA said: This is in fact an insult to the more than 47% of South Africans who wake up every morning to be exploited for a pittance of less than R3500. Nedlac s advisory panel on the national minimum wage, should they go ahead with their proposal, will affirm our long-held suspicion that it is a body that is preoccupied with protecting the interests of the employers under the guise of trying to strike a balance that is favourable to all interested parties. The youth formation also challenged Ramaphosa to live on R3500. We further wish to challenge Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to live on R3500 at least for a week to experience the impact R3500 per month has on an average employee. We implore the ANC to retract its statement expressing support for Nedlac s panel on the wage. We view this as a digression from its own commitments of championing the interests of the working class South Africans, the YCLSA said.The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) said: The NUM is not in a position to accept or reject the national minimum wage proposal. The NUM will pronounce its decision later this week. Cosatu will be discussing the minimum wage proposal at its CEC meeting which kicked off yesterday. 701198-TNA Reporter