Data prices in South Africa will go down once the telcos are granted more access to spectrum, Vodacom CEO Shameel Joosub said yesterday South Africa has among the most expensive data in the world and demands for access are growing.Parliament s portfolio committee on telecommunications and postal services recently held a two-day hearing on mobile data costs.The hearing was sparked by the #DataMustFall hashtag as social media users urged networks to slash local data prices. The hashtag was driven by radio personality Thabo Tbo Touch Molefe, who said South Africa s data prices were daylight robbery and that data must fall. Data prices for South Africa are on average 134% more expensive than the cheapest prices in the Brics group, according to research company Tariffic.Joosub said data prices were falling in South Africa but this would be accelerated with the provision of more spectrum. Data was already falling 13-14% annually. Data prices will continue to drop but the more we have access to spectrum the more we roll out services and prices will drop. Prices will drop but we must be able to balance, Joosub said.Analyst Peter Takendesa at Mergence Investment Managers concurred that if spectrum was freed up, prices would drop, but cautioned telcos had to consider sharing infrastructure as an option to reduce costs. There is no point in every operator digging up roads to roll out their own fibre network, he said. Farai Mapfinya at Falcon Crest Asset Managers said: Spectrum has been an issue for the past five years. It will be a game changer should a decision to that effect be passed. The business case is there, albeit at lower margins. Mapfinya said telcos would continue to rely on data to achieve any meaningful growth. Vodacom s half-year financial results released yesterday showed that data revenue increased by 19.5% to R9.9bn and now makes up 38.8% of service revenue, up from 34.3% a year ago.Active data customers grew by 4.1% to 18.2 million. It said the average price per megabyte fell by 13% over the past year and by 61% over the past four years.The company has so far ploughed R4.1bn into its South African network in the six months ended September, which it used to widen its 3G and 4G data coverage substantially .Vodacom s South African services revenue grew by 5.6% to R25.5bn, aided by strong customer net additions and increased data demand.Revenue grew by 3.8% to R31.4bn, impacted by a 5.2% decrease in equipment revenue due to higher prices and weaker consumer demand. Data remains the key driver for growth and will be so for the foreseeable future, Mapfinya said about Vodacom s performance. Of the four key strategic levers price, network quality, distribution and customer service Vodacom has continued to focus on network investment, reducing churn and offering better value packages relative to its competitors. SAMUEL MUNGADZE | samuelm@thenewage.co.za