Tensions between the ANC Youth League and the ANC reached new heights yesterday amid claims that the ANC is selective in dealing with ill-discipline in its ranks.ANCYL president Collen Maine said he would lodge a written complaint against ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu s conduct. We equally call on the ANC to look at all its members on this matter. We call on the ANC to instil discipline without fear or favour. As the ANCYL we have noted a growing trend of ANC leadership breaking ranks, speaking outside of structures, Maine said.He made the comments at the ANC headquarters in Luthuli House after the league s national working committee meeting.In recent weeks the ANC publicly condemned utterances made by Maine and MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe for breaking ranks. Maphatsoe recently described outspoken 101 ANC veterans as empty tins , irrelevant and without struggle credentials .While Maine was condemned for calling on the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association to take up arms in defence of President Jacob Zuma. We call on the ANC communication to be consistent when it deals with issues. The ANC never issued a statement against Jackson but to do it on comrade Kebby. This behaviour of the ANC communication might play to the narrative that there are groupings in the ANC NEC thus others are shielded and others are responded to, he said.ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa dismissed the allegations. Jackson Mthembu was called to Luthuli House to explain his utterances. Furthermore the national officials continue to meet individuals who speak outside of the structures, Kodwa said. All members are treated equally regardless of their position, he said. Meanwhile ANC MP Mathole Motshekga, dared the ANCYL to go ahead and write to the ANC. They are children. I can t engage them, he said. The NEC will deal with these matters, Motshekaga said.The youth league also urged the ANC to give its veterans an audience, We call on the ANC leadership to give the veterans of our movement a platform to raise the concerns they have, spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize said. We must not forget their commitment to liberate the country. It is with that background that we think they should be listened to. We would like them to raise their issues within the structures of the MKMVA otherwise it will defeat the purpose of having the structure, he said.Peter Ramothwalapeterr@thenewage.co.za