The SA Rugby Sevens Academy departed for the Emirates Dubai Sevens International Invitational tournament on Tuesday.The event will be played alongside the HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series event on December 2 and 3 .The Sevens Academy return to the competition as defending champions. It is a rebuilding phase in the next four year cycle as we try and find the next batch of potential Olympians and we embrace that, SA Rugby Sevens Academy coach Paul Delport said.Finding the next Blitzbok on SA Rugby Sevens Academy s radar &#8211; Paul Delport https://t.co/6xA8CByDXL @SteinhoffRugby @pauldelport9 pic.twitter.com/UYCX3qPWbE South African Rugby (@Springboks) November 29, 2016Delport also indicated that the players in the team are the cream of the crop. We are really looking forward working with them over the next couple of months. Our job is to develop the next group of players that can play for the senior team. Winning tournaments along the way is also nice, but our main aim is to deliver the next Blitzbok, said Delport.The coach said its in the teams personality and culture to want to win every match though, so the team will always go out to achieve that.&#8220;The sooner the guys buy into our structures, the sooner they will fit into the senior squad set-up, said Delport.The SA Rugby Sevens Academy Pool A fixtures are: Friday 2 December: 16h00: SA Rugby Academy vs Poland 18h20: SA Rugby Academy vs Les Bleus 20h20: SA Rugby Academy vs Belgium Saturday 3 December: Play-offs The Pools for the tournament are: Pool A: SA 7s Academy, Belgium, Poland, Les Bleus Sevens Pool B: Ireland, Georgia, Germany Development, Zambia Pool C: France 7 Development, The Royals, Hundested Spurs, Tribe 7s The SA Rugby Sevens Academy squad for Dubai: 1. Ryan Oosthuizen (Western Province) 2. Stephan Dippenaar (SA Rugby, captain) 3. Zain Davids (Western Province) 4. Robbie Louw (Boland) 5. Impi Visser (Blue Bulls) 6. Wayne van der Bank (Golden Lions) 7. Selvyn Davids (Griffons) 8. Malcolm Jaer (Eastern Province) 9. Diederik Oberholzer (Leopards) 10. Mfundo Ndhlovu (KZN) 11. Joel Booysen (Western Province) 12. Stedman Gans (Blue Bulls) TNA Reporter