Essential nutrition for good healthWhile eating healthy is essential for both the sexes, men and women have different dietary requirements. Here are some foods that every woman must include in her diet&#8230;Flax seeds Have Flax seeds daily for overall good health. They are a good source of Omega-3 fatty acids and are known to reduce the risk of heart disease and breast cancer. They also have anti-inflammatory properties that prevent arthritis, apart from digestive properties which help ease irritable bowel syndrome.Salmon Not only is salmon rich in iron, which is usually lacking in women, but it is also full of omega-3 fatty acids, known to improve your mood. Experts say that omega-3 helps treat depression and prevent mood swings.Cranberries Certain studies over the years have found a link between eating Cranberries and how it reduces the risk of breast cancer and heart disease. Also, they have the ability to prevent and cure urinary tract infections. Have a glass of cranberry juice every other day.Spinach While this might not be a much-loved food, spinach is packed with a host of vitamins, minerals and high amounts of magnesium. And magnesium is known to help reduce the physical symptoms of PMS like swelling, breast tenderness, bloating and weight gain.Walnuts Experts say that walnuts have omega-3 fatty acids, antioxidants and phytosterols all important in reducing the risk of breast cancer. The high omega-3 content also helps bone health, arthritis and depression. Walnuts also comprise nutrients like calcium, magnesium and folic acid.Oats Oats are bursting with health-boosting nutrients, great for female health. They keep your heart healthy, are great for digestion, keep blood pressure levels in check and also contain vitamin B6, which helps prevent PMS and mood swings. Another component folic acid prevents birth defects in babies and is essential for women during and after pregnancy.Milk Calcium deficiency is one of the major health concerns that affects women worldwide. Milk is an absolute must for women at any age. A great source of calcium, milk, when combined with vitamin D, is one of the best ways to keep osteoporosis at bay. Milk is also helpful in preventing symptoms of the dreaded PMS.Tomatoes A carotenoid that is essential for good health is lycopene, which is a pigment found in Tomatoes. And several studies have said that lycopene can help prevent breast cancer. Apart from this, there is also evidence that suggests that it reduces the risk of heart disease. This article was first published on Times of India