With 64GB iPhones being considered as a luxury in India, users soon face a storage crunch after trying out various multimedia features on their 16GB iPhones. The option of not having a microSD card slot adds to the injury.As more consumers are buying iPhones, mostly affordable 16GB versions, in the country, storage is something they learn to treasure overtime. Here are 10 best practices to never run out of GBs when needed. Get a Wi-Fi external storage deviceFor those who wish to carry lots of movies, songs, books on their iPhone, a Wi-Fi card reader or storage drive is priceless. There are several options available in Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 price range from Kingston and SanDisk.With these, users can access their external hard drive or microSD cards wirelessly on their phones. Internet connectivity is not required.Back up and delete old photosCamera photos accumulate overtime and tend to consume a lot of space. It is always a good practice to backup old photos on Google Drive or Dropbox and delete them from the device. Alternatively, this is also where the Wi-Fi hard drive will come handy. Delete old messages (iMessages/ SMS)Not every old message is important. While messages may not consume GBs but they do consume noticeable amount of space, especially iMessages. It is good to delete them and make way for a new app. Also, in the Settings menu under Messages, users can &#8216;opt out&#8217; of never delete messages automatically. Get rid of unnecessary appsApps consume a lot of real estate in any smartphone. For 16GB iPhone users, it makes no sense in keeping unnecessary apps or the ones which are hardly used. Delete books and download only when required againIf a user doesn t read iBooks on their phone, he or she can opt to delete it and get it again when actually required. It is always saved in iCloud for future. It helps in saving some MBs.Turn off &#8220;Keep Normal Photo&#8221;In the Settings menu under Photos, there is an option to turn off &#8220;Keep Normal Photos&#8221;. This helps in avoiding duplicate photographs on the device, when HDR is used. Also, deleting photos shot in burst mode helps a lot.Clean your music playlistThere might be songs that are unheard for a long time or simply doesn t suit the taste anymore. Delete them. Users can make maximum use of iCloud along with other music streaming apps to tune into the latest music.Clear offline dataOffline data from Safari or Chrome takes away a considerable amount of space. It is a good practice to clear browser cache regularly including offline reading lists. Delete duplicatesHunt and delete. Most phones tend to have a large amount of duplicate data in the form of songs, videos and other files. It is simply a waste of storage. Migrate videos/ moviesVideos and movies are mostly a one-time watch on phones. If something is not important, it is better to migrate them to a Wi-Fi external storage or back it up on Google Drive. Alternative, deleting some helps as well.-TOI