THE RISE of Donald Trump in the US presidential race has stunned as many as it has horrified. Between his inflammatory comments, contradictory statements and recently his incitement of his supporters to violence, the Orange Menace (as the Daily Maverick calls him) shows no signs of slowing down, much to the shock of Republicans, who expected Trump to be out of the race months ago.The Donald s seemingly unstoppable momentum may baffle opponents and onlookers after all, when one considers how hollow and immature a lot of his rhetoric is, the fact that he s the frontrunner for the Republican nomination seems bizarre. What this overlooks, however, is the fact that Trump has used social media more effectively than any of his opponents and in a way heretofore unimaginable for a political candidate.Anyone who frequents the digital space and in particular Twitter will recognise Trump, by the tactics he s using, for what he actually is: arguably the most successful internet troll in today s political spectrum.On social media, Trump s playbook reads like a laundry list of troll tactics.First there are the deliberately emotive, controversial pronouncements ( Make America Great Again ; I have never seen a thin person drinking Diet Coke ). Then there are the low-rent insults Trump has used his account to launch personal attacks on the likes of Arianna Huffington, Bette Midler and Rosie O Donnell, which focus mostly on their physical appearance.It also seems that a sense of shame is something of a foreign concept to Trump. When it was pointed out that he d quoted Mussolini on Twitter, his response was simply: It s still a good quote. &#8220;@ilduce2016: It is better to live one day as a lion than 100 years as a sheep. @realDonaldTrump #MakeAmericaGreatAgain&#8220; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 28, 2016All of this may sound like highly juvenile behavior (and it is), but it also accomplishes what every single internet troll desires: it gets other people looking in their direction. Whether the attention the troll attracts for their behaviour is positive or negative is immaterial. The spotlight is all they desire.In Trump s case, this trolling of the US electorate has worked like gangbusters.According to Google Analytics, Trump has received far more coverage in both US and global news than his opponents. While the likes of Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz battle for facetime with the media, Trump remains one of the most searched terms on a daily basis, possibly due to the fact that he s now become a target of global hacktivist group Anonymous.It s no surprise, then, that he s the frontrunner for the Republican nomination.For anyone who thinks that Trump s behavior doesn t equate to trolling, bear in mind The Donald has form in this regard.In 2011, he hounded President Barack Obama across US networks, demanding that he produce a birth certificate proving that he had, in fact, been born in the US. At best this was a petty and wholly unnecessary exercise aimed at raising doubts about Obama s legitimacy; at worst it was honest-to-goodness trolling.It didn t matter, though, because the media lapped it up, which ultimately led to Trump s leading the GOP field before he even declared his candidacy. Now, due to the fact that Trump s roll has snowballed into a credible threat to their ambitions, the Republicans and certain segments of the media who were quite happy to give Trump a platform in the past are now genuinely concerned that he s become something of an unstoppable force.This is their own fault, however, because in their attempts to fire back at him, question him or bring him to book on any of the numerous horrible things he s said, they d played right into Trump s hands.As anyone who inhabits the online space will tell you, you never feed a troll. Jack WyattFor a weekly review of what s hot in your tech environment, don t miss TechKnowAge in The New Age every Tuesday