Health MEC Lebogang Motlhaping has urged all community members to follow a healthy lifestyle to minimise cardiovascular diseases.He said people should also be aware that today was World Heart Day.The World Health Organisation has for the month of September adopted the theme, Creating a heart healthy environment: Your heart is at the heart of your health.Motlhaping said the theme was aimed at highlighting the importance of taking care of the heart as it puts one at risk of suffering heart disease and stroke.He said cardiovascular disease was the world s number one killer. Annually it is responsible for 17.5 million premature deaths worldwide.He said heart attacks were caused by too narrow arteries or clots as that restricted blood flow to the heart. It could be diagnosed by chest pain or discomfort, short breath, nausea, vomiting, cold sweat, lightheadedness or back pain. There are different forms of serious heart conditions. Heart failure is caused by the inability of the heart to pump blood efficiently around the body.Angina is when the heart muscle does not get as much blood and oxygen as it needs because arteries are blocked or narrowed. Cardiac arrest is when the heart stops beating, heart rhythm can be chaotic preventing it from pumping effectively or may stop completely, he said.Motlhaping encouraged communities to learn how to perform Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) or seek medical assistance when somebody has a heart attack, as it saves lives. Simple lifestyle changes for an example eating and drinking healthily, regular physical activity, regular monitoring of chronic conditions, avoiding obesity, managing stress, quitting smoking and illegal substances, he said. At least 30 minutes five times a week of physical activity like brisk walking,swimming, jogging, skipping or playing any sport is sufficient. Eliminating salt, sugar and fried food as well as consuming more fresh fruit and vegetables will eliminate the risk of heart conditions. In SA, the proportion of CVD deaths in women aged between 35-59 years is one and a half times more likely than that of women in the US.He said there were two types of risk factors namely, controllable (things one can change like lifestyle habits, healthy diet, cholesterol levels, inactivity, high blood pressure) and uncontrollable (those that cannot be changed like genetics, age and gender as women are less likely to survive a heart attack as warning signs are less obvious).Non-communicable diseases including CVDs, were estimated to account for 43% of total adult deaths in our country.CVDs account for almost a fifth (18%) of these deaths.The MEC also cautioned communities about the dangers of smoking, as it was also a contributing factor. Smoking damages the blood vessels and that poses a higher risk for heart problems, hence it is important to encourage smokers to quit as well asdiscourage young children not to start smoking as nicotine is addictive, Motlhaping said.Nomusa Mvubunomusam@thenewage.co.za