More than R323m has been set aside by state-owned broadcaster SABC to move the country towards the much anticipated digital format. Presenting the broadcaster’s financial results in Auckland Park, CEO James Aguma said the SABC had been investing heavily in digital terrestrial television (DTT) migration. So far this year R323m has been spent, R129m more than was invested last year. “During the year, the SABC continued with various technology projects to upgrade internal and external broadcasting and production facilities in order to take advantage of the opportunities presented by the launch of DTT, the rapid roll-out broadband internet connectivity and the rise of alternative mobile entertainment option,” he said. Aguma said the upgrades were imperative for the SABC, as they created a sustainable platform for broadcasting and content distribution in the digital age. “We are sitting with a lot of equipment that is not suitable for DTT and so we are rolling out a lot of this equipment, which is paid for in foreign currencies and has an impact on the financial results,” he said Aguma said the broadcaster was upskilling its own staff to ensure it was ready for digital transmission. The corporation recorded a loss of R411m in the 2016 financial year, but was on the path towards major improvements, Aguma said. He attributed the losses to broadcasting obligations that the SABC could not avoid, such as committing to content that did not generate revenue and less support from the state. Such content includes broadcasting developmental minority sports as well as sports of interest, to which no any other broadcaster commits. “We have a provincial presence, report on a variety of sports and in 11 languages, whether we get revenue or not.” He cited the recent elections as another drain on finances without a monetary return. Government funding was down 3% in the period under review. The broadcaster has R2.6bn in surplus net assets. When all of its property is properly evaluated, its asset position will be greatly improved. Revenue growth was a modest 7% to R7.9bn from last year. Aguma said despite the “negative cloud”, the SABC was already on a major path to recovery. It has seen major areas of improvement in governance, receiving some endorsements from the auditor-general. The SABC moved from having “nine material concerns” being flagged negatively by the auditor-general in 2013 to a qualified opinion in 2014. Presently, Aguma said, the auditorgeneral had pointed out only one issue as having a major financial governance impact. The SABC boasts a cumulative 108 million viewers and listeners across all its television and radio stations. business@thenewage.co.za