&nbsp;Known to many television viewers as Mpho Rankwane, Tsietsi Namane s wife on e.tv telenovella, Ashes To Ashes, Nyalleng Thibedi s acting career is more of a journey than a destination.This is because the Soweto-born actress continues to grow and find herself with every character she plays. I am still growing as an actress and the journey is ongoing. Everything I do is part of that journey of learning and self-discovery, Thibedi said.She said, contrary to popular belief, she has not yet arrived and continues to learn on a daily basis as an actor. Not many people know that Nyalleng Thibedi shares her birthday with Beyonc Knowles and when I teased her about that small fact she said: It helps to share a birthday with a star like Beyonc . On Ashes To Ashes, Thibedi has earned her stripes acting alongside big name actors such as Nambitha Mpumlwana, Patrick Shai and Menzi Ngubane. I am a fan of how Ashes To Ashes pushed the boundaries of storytelling and its filming style. I am also proud of how the show mixed young actors with experienced actors. It was an amazing experience being part of the two seasons of Ashes To Ashes, the actress with a rich Sotho accent, said. After completing her chemical engineering degree at the University of Cape Town in 2001, Thibedi worked in the industry for two years, but she felt that engineering was not for her.She then tried modelling in between her spare time as a way to fill the longing for something different. She later found out that this too did not make sense, so she tried her hand at being a part-time actress, appearing as an extra in television advertisements until she became a prominent feature.For Thibedi, a scientific grounding is far more important and education gives her just that. After realising that she could make money with this acting hobby, Thibedi decided to pack up and leave for America to study acting.With all her life savings, the brighteyed budding actress headed for New York and began another journey of selfdiscovery in a foreign country with limited resources. She studied at different acting schools and took part in different camps to gain that scientific grounding she had been longing for, while putting in long hours as a waitress just so she could support herself. New York is such an expensive place to live in. The rent there is quite expensive and I had to really work extra hard just so I could afford to have a roof over my head. It was tough, but there were many lessons to be learnt, she said. I like anything that has a scientific system to it. I realised I could not study modelling and decided that I could study acting, so I went to America to study acting and used my savings from my engineering job to fund my studies. Though she is not planning to move to America again, Thibedi said being away from home at such a young age was an out of body experience that had given her confidence, having spent more than six years there.She did theatre and film while in the US. In 2008, Thebedi landed a lead role on New York Film Academy s short film, Picture Perfect. Under different coaches and mentors, she maintained a thriving career as a stage actress. In 2010, Thibedi decided to return home and make a name for herself in the country of her birth.The end result is a series of roles in television drama s such as Streets Of Mangaung, the role of Rama in the Mzansi Magic drama mini-series Single Mothers, as well as another Mzansi Magic drama, Lobola and many others. When she is not rehearsing or shooting, the mother of one still finds time to give back to young chemical engineering students through regular school visits and motivational talks in between her busy schedule as an actress. I was once a student.I have walked this journey before. So for me it means a lot to be able to give myself to young people to encourage them and give them hope about their challenges at school. Just the other day, one student tweeted that she was not inspired. But after the school visit and the talk, I asked her if she still felt the same, and her outlook had already changed and she was looking forward to school again. It is this kind of feedback that inspires me to take time out and encourage others through their despair, Thibedi said, regarding her involvement with young people through her regular talks.While Thibedi was reluctant to reveal her next film big project, she said that it was in the pipeline and the details would be revealed in due time.In the meantime, getting the youth to appreciate school and particularly science is her mission.Siyabonga Sithole