Leader of the Democratic Alliance Mmusi Maimane is set to enter the fray around the ongoing university Fees crises when he meets with Vice-Chancellors and Opposition Parties on Saturday evening. Maimane is scheduled to sit down with Wits Chancellor Professor Adam Habib, and CEO of Universities South Africa and Chairman of its Finance and Investment Committee Dr Ahmed Bawa. “The crisis that has gripped the country’s higher education institutions requires society as a whole to work together in order to find workable solutions for the short and long-term so that no student is excluded from completing their tertiary qualification due to their financial circumstances,” said Maimane in a statement. Bawa on Tuesday said the cost of violent student protests since last year had ballooned to R600m with the latest protests. According to the DA, leaders from the EFF, UDM, COPE, IFP, FF+, ACDP and AGANG have already confirmed their attendance at the meeting. “While the students are not mobilising under party banners, we cannot ignore the fact that many of the students belong to the student structures of the country’s political parties, which we as party leaders are responsible for,” said Maimane. UniZulu, University of Limpopo, Tshwane University of Technology, University of Cape Town, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, North West University (NWU), Vaal Triangle campus, University of Pretoria (UP), Vaal University of Technology, Central University of Technology and Sol Plaatje University are some of the institutions closed until October 10 as students protest for free education. On Thursday during the Post Cabinet briefing it was revealed that President Zuma was due to receive a briefing from the Justice Crime Prevention and Security Cluster about the situation at tertiary institutions. “President Zuma has instructed the Justice Crime Prevention and Security Cluster to deal with the mayhem that is destroying our institutions of higher learning,” Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe said. Radebe urged students and student leaders to raise their concerns appropriately. -Siphiwe Mchunu