Bidvest Wits may not have the cup final pedigree that Mamelodi Sundowns do – but coach Gavin Hunt feels this could be the match they can finally get their breakthrough. Wits meet Sundowns tomorrow in the MTN8 final at Mbombela Stadium in Nelspruit. There is no doubt that, on paper, Sundowns are favourites to lift the title tomorrow given their recent form. They are the country’s best team at the moment, having also reached the CAF Champions League final. Wits do not boast much success in cup competitions, having last won the Nedbank Cup final in 2010 when they defeated AmaZulu, only to lose three years later in the final of the same competition against Orlando Pirates. “Once this club get a feel and a bit of a taste, I think we can go on for more, but we need that breakthrough. That’s what holds us back at the moment,” Hunt said. “I think for a club like us, if we succeed now we can find a flow of more trophies to come.” On the other hand, Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane seems to be well prepared for anything Wits throw at them tomorrow. Mosimane analysed how Wits are likely to approach the match and said they have plans to counter whatever. “We plan to see what’s on the table first. When we see what’s on the table we will respond to that,” Mosimane said. “If Wits are going to put in crosses through Sifiso Hlanti and Daine Klate, we will have to respond to that. “You saw what happened when they played Pirates, with Felipe Ovono failing to hold them. But we are well prepared for everything Wits will come up with.” Hunt, who has not won a trophy with Wits in his three years there, believes however that teams must be judged by the position they finish in the league and not on knock-out competitions. “I think if you look at South African football, people get judged on a competition like the MTN8, which is three or four games,” Hunt said. “It’s a little bit harsh sometimes because I think the league is where you should be judged,where you end up on the log. “We are all privileged to be playing in these competitions because it’s lucrative, but we must be careful not to judge people over three games. “I think you need to judge somebody over a period of games and the league gives you that. “Wits is a club that hasn’t had a great history in winning cups, but that could all change soon enough.” Neville Khoza nevillek@thenewage.co.za