It is necessary to critically shift the focus on the turmoil which is engulfing campuses of our country’s universities. The raft of protests and the resultant turmoil places the spirit and principles of the Freedom Charter under the microscope as students challenge the ideologies and policies of our troubled past. Yes the Freedom Charter states that there should be “free education”, of paramount importance for a country like South Africa. But yet looking at my young contemporaries at the embattled universities there is a possibility that they have missed the plot in their exuberant protests. Yes the Freedom Charter does state that “education shall be free, compulsory, universal and equal for all children; higher education and technical training shall be opened to all by means of state allowances and scholarships awarded on the basis of merit”. May we then please tackle the following part as the Freedom Charter envisages, namely that higher education and technical training shall be opened to all by means of state allowances. But let us be realistic, especially because we live in a developing country, which only has 22 years of independence and political freedom under its belt. Yes promises were made but maybe the students should rather help pave the way for up and coming academics instead of burning and torching institutions. Because what the country needs are graduates who will enter the work force and help build the country and contribute to boosting investor confidence, so that in one way or another the state may assist with funding those who cannot afford. We do understand that some of these universities are monolithic and urgently need to change and have some policies reviewed, like what is happening at the university of Free State with its new language policy. But what good will a medium of instruction be if there is no point of reference or no structure for learning to take place? Lets us keep in our minds that history these institutions have. It makes one wonder about what has must be going through the minds of those who penned the Freedom Charter or those who for fought for the liberation of this country, because looking at what happened in the years of apartheid, when administrative buildings were burnt to the ground but important institutions like universities and schools were left intact because those who fought for liberation understood the importance of education and its ability to help change our material circumstances as South Africans. It was Nelson Mandela who said “education is the most powerful tool to use to change the world”.It is vital that everyone has access to education but vandalising institutions will not be beneficial to anyone. Regomoditswe Mputle is a journalist and commentator