&nbsp;The North West education and sport development department has stopped paying rural allowances for teachers citing budgetary constraints.The move is likely to dampen the morale of teachers and unions in the province.This may also affect the quality of rural education as the allowance was meant to keep teachers of critical subject areas like mathematics and science in remote areas.Education and sport development spokesperson Elias Malindi said that issues of aff ordability made it diffi cult for the department to continue paying rural allowances. Malindi said circumstances beyond the department s control forced its to take the drastic step. The purpose of the rural allowance is to attract teachers who teach scarce subjects to rural areas. This initiative was introduced after many teachers left rural areas and went to the cities for greener pastures. Therefore the department in 2009 came up with the rural incentive allowance. The department experienced pressure in the compensation of the teachers and personnel in 2015. This was due to the excess teachers who did not want to be transferred to other schools where their skills were needed. We were forced to hire temporary teachers.Also the long sick leave of teachers contributed to the problem, Malindi said. He said the department was forced to pay two teachers instead of one because of the absenteeism.He said pupils needed teachers to continue with their syllabi despite the challenges. We hired temporary teachers to fi ll the gap. These incidents aff ected our budget tremendously.The rural allowance was discontinued after careful consideration. The department will see how its budget for the 2016-17 fi nancial year will be and the situation will be assessed , Malindi said. However, teacher union Sadtu in North West said the move was shocking and needed to be challenged.Sadtu provincial chairperson Mxolisi Bomvana said they would meet with the department and urge its to reverse the decision. The department s decision was a wrong move. We lost a number of teachers last year after they resigned.The department knows we have a shortage of teachers. If they decide to cut the rural allowance how they will survive? North West is predominantly a rural area and that says a lot. Many teachers do not want to go to teach in rural areas . The roads are not accessible, sometimes the area is far from town. But dedicated teachers are willing to render their services despite that. Obakeng Maje