Bonolo SelebanoThe SA Students Congress (Sasco) is demanding the scrapping of registration fees and student debts at all institutions of higher learning.Speaking to The New Age after a meeting with Minister of Higher Education and Training Blade Nzimande in Sandton yesterday, Sasco president Thabo Moloja said most black and working class parents were faced with an unmanageable financial burden when sending their children to university and called for a total cancellation of student registration fees. Working class parents can t afford to pay ridiculous registration fees. We also don t want students to be denied access to university because of the debts they owe to these institutions, he said.The student body made the demands at a time when thousands of students are expected to flock to institutions of higher learning in the hope of securing their seats in lecture halls when the 2016 academic year begins.Last year s campaign for free higher education, dubbed #FeesMustFall, spurred a national debate on the feasibility of free higher education in South Africa. This led to President Jacob Zuma establishing a presidential task team to explore such a proposal. The task team submitted it s report to Zuma towards the end of last year.Moloja said the #FeesMustFall protests that brought South African universities to a standstill were not wild cat strikes but that they would continue to remain relevant for years to come. Our struggle for freedom was not a spontaneous revolution, it is still relevant today and until free education is delivered. We want to ensure that the doors of opportunity are open for all. Speaking at the 21st memorial service of ANC and SACP stalwart Joe Slovo, Nzimande said although he would not prevent students from protesting, Zuma would be making an announcement that would go a long way in allaying the fears of students at the ANC s January 8 Statement in Rustenburg today. We can t prevent students from demonstrating, but we will be making an announcement at the January 8 Statement on the measures and process that have been put in place, Nzimande said.Spokesperson for the department Khaye Nkwanyana said the meeting with Sasco was to clear up confusion in the run up to the start of the academic year. We wanted to bring them up to speed with our plans, he said. We also wanted them to know about the government s challenges in providing free education. In light of the #FeesMustFall campaign, we did not want them to act out of ignorance, he said.Nkwanyana went on to say the department would convene a press conference on Monday at Government Communication Information System headquarters in Hatfield, Pretoria to outline details of the department s plans for higher education this year.bonolos@thenewage.co.za