GAUTENG residents are urged to be vigilant at shopping centres and malls during this festive season. Police spokesperson Col Lungelo Dlamini said shoppers are advised to avoid back store deals where people pretend to be shop employees selling goods at a discounted price. Dlamini warned that victims end up losing all their hard-earned cash. He said the police had committed all their resources, including the 10111 centre, to respond to festive season criminal activities and members of the public were urged to cooperate and convey all information relating to suspicious vehicles and people. Any information that may lead to the arrest and conviction of criminals may be rewarded. Members of the community are also warned not to abuse the 10111 number because the time spent on prank calls, is the time police could have saved someone s life. Dlamini said shoppers had to be careful when using a vehicle stow purchases away in the boot of the vehicle if they were in plain view, a window could be smashed and goods stolen. Approach security guards if suspicious people are loitering near your vehicle and do not allow strangers to help carry your purchases to the vehicle they may be thieves. People must also be careful when withdrawing money at the ATMs by avoiding people who offer to help without being asked, Dlamini said. He said criminals appeared friendly, well-dressed and always willing to go an extra mile while their intentions were to steal or rob. Deployments will also form part of the patrols in public areas, stop-andsearch operations and roadblocks on major routes to deal with suspicious people and vehicles, alcohol related offences, drug trafficking, illegal firearms and stolen goods including vehicles and hijackings, Dlamini said. Police are appealing to the communities for cooperation as these operations may impede and inconvenience the movements of law abiding citizens. Gauteng police commissioner MajGen Deliwe de Lange said about 32000 SA Police Service officers, supplemented by 2000 police trainees would be spread across Gauteng to fight crime during the festive season. She said crime hot spots had been identified. We have also identified at least 17 shopping malls plagued by car theft and, areas frequented for alcohol and drugs have also been prioritised. We want the public to enjoy safe shopping and banking we want a crime-free life for Gauteng citizens. We will be covering all areas for 24 hours every day. nondumisoz@thenewage.co.za-Nondumiso Zwane