Residents must be responsible as they go about Christmas and New Year celebrations this festive season, ANC provincial chairperson and North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo has said.Mahumapelo said the ruling party wishes love, peace and prosperity to everyone as the 2016 chapter drew to a close. As we celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ during Christmas and welcome in the New Year, we should do so with great caution and avoid overindulgence in alcohol and substance abuse, he said. We call upon all our people to refrain from drinking alcohol and driving, as this leads to road fatalities. Drinking and driving is the main contributor to road deaths during the festive season. Our law enforcement agencies will be visible on all our roads throughout this season and will be tougher on all the wrongdoers. It remains the responsibility of all the road users to avoid driving under the influence of alcohol and obey the rules of the road for the benefit of all our people. Mahumapelo said adults should take special care to keep children safe, as the risk of them being abused during this time of the year was very high. We call upon all the people of our province to take special care of the innocent children and the elderly as we have noticed that during the festive seasons children and the elderly are neglected and abused, he said. As we prepare for the year 2017, it is important to exercise caution when spending our hard-earned money so as to save for the reopening of the new school term. He also encouraged residents to play a role in defeating crime during this time of the year by being active in their communities. We must emphasise that the safety of our people throughout the year and during this upcoming festive season in particular is our No1 priority and the ANC government will do the best we can to achieve that, Mahumapelo said. However, the government alone cannot fight lawlessness caused by overindulgence in celebrations, alcohol and drugs. We call upon community based organisations, churches and individuals to ensure that our province is safe for all its people and tourists alike. Mahumapelo wished fun and fulfilment to all tourists visiting the province this festive season.He reserved a special mention for this year s matriculants, who are awaiting the release of their final results early next month. In a very special way, we would like to congratulate the matric class of 2016 and their teachers for all their hard work, which we believe will be rewarded when the results are released on January 5, he said.ANC North West will also celebrate the party s 105th birthday at Orlando Stadium in Johannesburg on January 8.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za