A GROUP of about 50 women from Lesotho have made the pavement next to Bosman taxi station in Pretoria their home. Driven by a lack of jobs in their home country, these women bath, eat and sleep in the street while waiting to get piece jobs in the capital city. A woman who identified herself only as Moleboheng, 30, said that she ended up living in the street after returning from holiday in Lesotho and her boss did not answer her calls.She said that the employer later sent a message saying she was no longer welcome to work at her house. Staying on the street was my last option as I could not go back home because I didn t have taxi fare my boss just abandoned me and I had nowhere to go, she said. The women said they bath behind the taxis that park on the roadside to get some measure of privacy. One of the challenges of living on the streets is that they cannot cook or wash their clothes properly.They use toilets at local shopping centres and water from the taxi rank. Most of them get casual jobs as domestic workers and get paid on a daily basis but the money is not enough to pay for rent. Another woman said sending money home was also a challenge because they don t have South African IDs. As a result, they are forced to use someone else to send money which sometimes results in them being robbed. They use buckets to wash their faces in the morning. They say they contribute R2 each to buy bath dishes and washing soap.One of the women said that she wouldn t be able to go home for Christ mas because jobs are scarce so she will only send money to her kids for food. The women said that the municipality only offered them refuse bags so that they don t leave their rubbish in the street. There is an agency which helps the Lesotho women find jobs around Gauteng which operates at Home Affairs offices but the women said they can t afford to register with the agency. The challenge with an agency is that you have to pay money which you don t have and they don t even offer accommodation. Another challenge is that they take half of our salary which is not much we need our full salary to send back home, one of the women said. Social development spokesperson Lumka Olifant said that they cannot get involved until they know whether the women were here legally or illegally. We can t do anything for people who are in the country illegally, we don t know if they are contravening any bylaw, Olifant said. Attempts to get comment from the city of Tshwane failed due to its system being down. A few months ago, Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba announced the Lesotho special dispensation following engagement with his Lesotho counterpart, Lekhetho Rakuoane. The ministers agreed to explore the feasibility of implementing a trusted traveller system.Both countries need a secure, convenient and fast crossborder movement control system for frequent travellers. This will assist to facilitate legitimate cross border business, trade and travel. And so while the wheels of bureacracy grind slowly, these women, for who life on the streets of South Africa is tough, said it s still far better than life back home.dikeledir@thenewage.co.za-Dikeledi Ramabopa