The owners of the Dibane restaurant at Seshego Community Residential Units (CRU), formerly known as Seshego Hostel, will have to deal with the reality the foul smell coming from a dysfunctional drainage system is going nowhere soon. The odour is so severe, it is enough to ruin one s appetite once one sets foot in the eatery.The popular restaurant-cum-caf has been dogged by a dysfunctional drainage system much to the frustration of it owners and its loyal clientele.Since the drainage system started malfunctioning six weeks ago, there has been human excrement splattered just about everywhere a few centimetres away from the restaurant s kitchen door at the back.The proliferation of the mess has been nothing but severe pain for the restaurant owner and the rest of the residents who share the adjacent blocks.The backdoor overlooks some of the residential units, also wreaking havoc on other dwellers.Children as young as five could be seen playing not far from where the mess is as flies hover everywhere.This is the frustration the owners of the Dibane restaurant have to deal with for the past six weeks.The dysfunctional drainage is part of a whole host of structural faults bedevilling the multimillion-rand structure at the intersection of Khensani and Freedom Drive at Zone 6.It has been widely speculated that the housing project was constructed with material which is not in line with the requirements of the South African Bureau of Standards. On Friday, Polokwane Housing Association administrator Sebati Maja confirmed that the drainage system had structural defaults from the onset. However, his colleague, Aaron Rakau, said while they understood the predicament encountered by the restaurant owners and other residents, the other problem lay with the people who disposed of objects that were not flushable. There are people who throw objects like sanitary pads, old cloths, hairbrushes and other hard materials into the system. We are doing our best to keep this drainage functional but if residents are just careless, what can we do? he asked.Distraught restaurant owner Mochecha Ledwaba said they had to deal with the recurring blockage which leaves them frustrated. This blockage happens after every six months. We are dealing with food here and this foul smell is not good for our business. We have long appealed to the housing association to come up with a permanent solution but our pleas always fall on deaf ears. We really don t know when this problem will come to an end, Ledwaba said.news@thenewage.co.za