Not many players in the Absa Premiership have had as glittering a year as Keagan Dolly.Dolly can claim to have seen most, if not all that most players toil endlessly for and still fail to achieve.At 23, the winger has graced the biggest tournaments, an amazing achievement for a player in the Premier Soccer League.He has been to the 2016 Rio Olympics and now the Fifa Club World Cup, two of the world s biggest football tournaments, representing the senior national team and scoring important goals in the 2018 World Cup qualifiers and Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers.This work ethic saw him win, along with his Downs teammates, the Africa Champions League, the PSL and the Telkom Knockout.He is now up for an African player of the year award for African-based players. This begs the question is it time for the player to make the big move abroad?If he chooses to stay, then what more is he still hoping to achieve on the domestic front where he has literally seen and done it all?Dolly is clear, he is happy at Sundowns, but nothing would make him happier than scoring an overseas move.The national U-23 team captain is itching to make this step, not a huge deal for any 23 year old elsewhere in the world, but it could be monumental for the South African. It is not just me saying I am ready. There are offers coming in from overseas teams.This has been my dream since I was a little boy, he said. I did well for the nation at the Olympics, scored goals for Bafana Bafana and also did well for Sundowns. I am ready, Dolly said.Though he prefers to go to England or Spain, Dolly is not finicky and will go anywhere if the terms are right.Greek side Olympiakos matched Sundowns release clause for the player in January, but were turned down. What remains is a case at the PSL dispute resolution chamber, yet Dolly said there is no bad blood between him and the club.Philosophical for one so young, the winger said the move may have failed because it was not quite the right time. If the next offer is good enough, I will take it and go. I am not disappointed that I did not go to Greece. I am happy at Sundowns and that move was not meant to be. My time will come, Dolly said.The in form Bafana star is one of the few players who caught the eye of the international media during Sundowns 2-0 loss to Kashima Antlers at Suita Stadium in Osaka, Japan on Sunday.MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za