Tik, the drug of choice in the Western Cape, has had a devastating impact on teenagers, leaving many families and communities having to grapple with the consequences such as crime, unemployment, an increase in sexually transmitted diseases and a high rate of school dropouts.Tik, as crystal methamphetamine is popularly known as, is the main drug of choice in the Western Cape.Crime Statistics SA said drug-related crimes have increased from 88 731 in 2015 to 93 996 in the province.Furthermore, it encourages reckless financial behaviour in most households.Meanwhile, the infamous drug in Gauteng, nyoape, was set to be illegalised by the department of health with consultation with the department of justice, by amending the Drugs and Drug Trafficking Act 140 of 1992 to ensure that those arrested for possession and dealing in the substance are prosecuted.The 2016 United Nations World Drug Report said 7.06% of the South African population abuses narcotics of some kind.The prevalence of amphetamines among young people in the province including Grade 8-10 pupils, dominated with 2.0% in 2011.Meanwhile, in South Africa, high school pupils were dominant in 2008 with 6.6%.Family member of a drug user Patrick Zumba, said: Once you smoke it, you don t want to stop because the minute you do, you feel very irritable. My cousin is also scratching himself nonstop. One of the effects is that you lose weight tremendously. The city will not allow nyaope to be available openly. He said that the fight to eradicate drugs needs an united effort and the need for NGOs is one that is needed in this battle.SAPS figures show that 60% of crimes nationally were related to substance abuse.In the Western Cape, the figure was closer to 80%. The perpetrators of these crimes are either under the influence of substances, or trying to secure money for their next fix.Drug statistics from the Cancer Association of South Africa show that 25000 people die annually of smoking-related illnesses in SA.About 2.5 million workdays are lost in the country due to absenteeism from tobacco-related illnesses. Worldwide, between 80000 and 100000 kids start smoking every day.Zumba said peer pressure is the one of influences of being a drug user you cannot start without being influenced by friends. It starts from about R15 and lasts a couple of hours that s the cheapest dose. The most expensive ones are smoked by gangsters and lasts for about 48 hours, which keeps you awake and energetic you tend to sweat, meaning that the drug wears off. Tik is also called benz, Zumba said.Umgwinyo and indumba are also popular names.A mother who lost a daughter, has bemoaned the abandonment of a bill that would have ensured that those found in possession or dealing in nyaope, are prosecuted.The bill has been sitting in the tray since 2013 and is seemingly forgotten while thousands of young South Africans battle with nyaope addictions. The failure to classify nyaope as an illegal substance is fuelling devastation in already impoverished townships. A lot of our children are addicted to this poison, the mother said.Nyaope addicts turn to crime and even steal valuables from their families to feed their habit that costs R30 per sachet but users need several doses a day.Dealers are known to add all sorts of substances to bulk out the concoction with dagga, antiretroviral drugs, heroin and even rat poison at times.Dr David Bayever from the government drug control organisation, the CDA, said at least 15% of South Africans have a drug problem.Martha Dean, who buried her 24-year-old daughter Bonita in September, said a lot could be done from the government s end.Bonita died after a long struggle with drug addiction and her mother had to fork out R50000 in an effort to rehabilitate her. Bonita really struggled with drugs until the day she died, even when I tried to put her in rehabilitation centres, it did not help, she said.However, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku, defended the neglect of the bill saying possession of any ingredients of nyaope or woonga was unlawful. Once traces of illegal substances are established, we prosecute, Mfaku said.The department of social development s spokesperson Thebe Mohatle, said they were concerned with the broader challenge of addressing the scourge of substance abuse and alcohol and several social ills that impact all sectors of the communities. Ours is therefore not to focus on one specific drug, but on ensuring that communities are protected and spared from the proliferation of other substances. This we achieve through an integrated strategy that involves participation from all sectors of our community, Mohatle said.He said that the use and abuse of drugs is universal and therefore cannot say they are used differently in different regions. The Gauteng Anti Substance Abuse Social Movement, the Ke Moja programmes, are some of the activities that Gauteng has successfully launched in response to the tenets of the National Drug Master Plan, Mohatle said.A recently-released United Nations world drug report named South Africa as one of the drug capitals of the world.South African National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence director Terrence Makananisa, said another blow in the fight against drugs was the shortage of rehabilitation centres in the country. It is mostly the rural areas that struggle with not having centres. For instance, Limpopo just recently got their first centre in Seshego, Makananisa said.Makananisa said family support was lacking. Family members dump their loved ones and will only visit when there is a problem. With family support, the recovery of most patients would be speedy, Makananisa said.More than 300 people took part in the anti-drug campaign in Rosettenville, Johannesburg, in September. Spokesperson Virgil James, for the city of Joburg said the 5.2km march was a success and communities were engaged.provinces@thenewage.co.za