IT WAS a time for celebrations when a group of young people graduated after being trained at the Scabazini and Vuma Youth Development academies.MEC Weziwe Thusi witnessed 101 young people who were trained at the academies graduate at the weekend.Thusi said more than 500 young people had been equipped with skills at the academies that they will use to either start their own businesses, seek employment or even further their education. We are also grateful for the presence of these academies as they have helped a great deal in boosting local economies. We now have members of the community who can afford to put bread on the table, pay for the education of their children and many other household essentials, Thusi said.The youth development academy model was conceptualised as a result of the persistent challenges of unemployment and low-skills levels faced by youths in the province. These were further compounded by the persistence of social ills. We are giving young people an opportunity of a lifetime, by affording them a second chance in life and to live life with a purpose. It is very encouraging to be part of a system that changes the lives of these young men for the better. Some of them had started doing petty crime and, had it not been for our intervention, they would have graduated into hardened criminals .The initiative was first piloted at the Scabazini Youth Development Academy in Umkhanyakude district, following a provincial cabinet decision in 2012 for the department to take over the running of the facility from the department of correctional services.Due to the success of Scabazini another academy was later built in Vuma, eShowe. The aim of the academy is to focus on behavioural change, values and ethics, combined with need-directed vocational skills-training programmes. We stepped in at an appropriate time because we believe everyone deserves a second chance. In this way, we are fighting social ills as it is a known fact that most people who have no purpose tend to be a nuisance in their communities, Thusi said.The academies offer young people an intensive six-month training programme and accredited certificates, which can be used for further studies, starting their own businesses or seeking formal employment. They also receive toolkits to help in plying their trade.-SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO