Transport operators are cashing in on the festive season rush with some increasing their fares by more than 100%. The hardest hit passengers are migrants from neighbouring countries and those heading home for Christmas from Gauteng to Eastern Cape, Western Cape and KZN.A snap survey by The New Age of some domestic and international buses and flights showed that most carriers have increased their fares significantly as they prepare for the traditionally busy period.With schools closed and a number of companies also closing, it is brisk business for both bus and airline operators. Intercape, which publishes fares on its website, has increased its Eastern Cape bus from Johannesburg to R810 from R500 while the Cape Town bus will cost travellers R1000 up from R700. The East London bus fare has increased to R1100 from R550 while the Bloemfontein trip will cost R750 from R270.Greyhound has also hiked its fare for the Eastern Cape trip to R800 from R500. A flight to Durban from Johannesburg, which was R537 in February, has skyrocketed to R1 700. A JohannesburgCape Town flight for December 23 has since gone up to R2 930.On January 21, this year the same flight would have cost only R592. A Johannesburg-Lusaka return flight in September cost R5 900 and has since been hiked to R9 200.A Dar es Salaam return flight from Joburg that cost R5 500 is now R8 900. Elethu Madonyela who works in Johannesburg and plans to travel home to Umtata described the hiked fares as outrageous. To say the fares have gone up is an understatement.We re left no choice but to pay the ridiculous fares. It s ridiculous because the price list changes every week and on top of that you have to pay for luggage, Madonyela said. Cross-border travellers are the most affected with some operators hiking by up to 70% for flights and 110% for buses.A return flight to Bulawayo, Zimbabwe is normally R4 800 and has since been increased to R8 200. A bus, which cost R550 last month, has now been hiked to R1150. This has forced some foreign nationals living in the country to cancel their plans to travel.Mondli Nkomo, who resides in Johannesburg, said he felt the fares were unreasonable and would only travel at the end of January. The fares are a bit too steep and the thought of paying R1150 for a bus and then spending 14 hours in a queue at the border is enough to cause me to cancel my travel plans. I ll save up and travel at the end of January when fares are back to normal, Nkomo said. The Coach and Bus Operators Association chief executive, Alex Kautsiro, said there was nothing sinister with the fare increases.He said buses undercharge off peak because of reduced demand. Bus operators charge so little during off peak months and when the fare is now hiked during the festive commuters feel cheated. In fact, the standard charge for long distance is R70 per 100km, Kautsiro said.A cross-border bus operator, Muza Rondodzai, said this was the only time they could make decent profits. We struggle throughout the year because there aren t many people travelling. The festive season and Easter are the only times we can make reasonable profits. I don t think it s a rip off to customers, Rondodzai said.National Consumer Council spokesperson Trevor Hattingh said the hikes were legitimate. Pricing is not regulated in SA unless there is competition. Mthokosizi Dube|mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za