Taxi hijackings are crippling some owners, many of whom are yet to pay off their vehicles and are left without a source of income.South Africa has an estimated 230000 taxis and 1500 new taxis are purchased every month. Only 40000 taxis are insured.The dobsonville, Roodepoort, Leratong, and Johannesburg Taxi Association alone lost more than 150 taxis in just 10 months this year.The association s public relations officer Zeblon Simelane said this has left some taxi owners bankrupt and battling to pay back their bank loans.On average, a brand new Quantum costs between R380000 and R400000, translating to a monthly installment of between R7000 and R10000.The cheapest they can expect to pay for insurance is about R1600. On average, four or five taxis are stolen per week and we think we are being targeted as an association. We do report the cases, but you d be very lucky to get the vehicle back. The sad thing is that we have even lost drivers during these violent hijackings, Simelane said.South African Insurance Crime Bureau CEO Garth de Klerk said there was a general feeling that thefts of Quantums had increased. There seems to be definite evidence of an increase in taxi hijacking. What is concerning is the increased level of violence involved in the events, some leading to the death of the drivers, De Klerk said.Insurance broker Simbarashe Makwembere of Makesure Risk Solutions said insurance penetration into the taxi owning market was low because most taxi owners view insurance as an unnecessary expense. Most taxi owners are left without their vehicle should the taxi be written off or stolen. In a case where the taxi was financed through the bank, the taxi owner is expected to continue paying their monthly repayments even though they no longer have the taxi. It often leads to the taxi owner defaulting as they cannot generate an income. Ultimately, some taxi owners end up being blacklisted, he said.A taxi owner who lost two Quantums on the same day last month said she was reliably informed that the taxis had been taken to Soweto. I had information that they were sold to someone in Soweto, but confronting the suspects was a scary thought, she said.She said most of the taxis that run without insurance were over 10 years old, while the insured ones were usually under a year old.Simelanesaid the hijackings were sometimes committed by criminals posing as passengers. They make sure they never release you until your tracker is dismantled and in some cases they strip you naked so you cannot go to people for help. They also take your phones, Simelane said.Indications are that some of the taxis are sold at a cheap price in Gauteng or in other provinces. Simelane said that other criminals stripped the cars and then sold the parts.National Taxi Association spokesperson Theo Malele said there was a need for government intervention. A taxi operator works to cover the expenses of banks, financiers, motor traders and spares. They struggle without government support, Malele said. However, more education is needed for the taxi owners as insurance has great advantages for the industry, Malele said.MTHOKOZISI DUBEmtokozisid@thenewage.co.za