Consumers are advised to go easy on spending this holiday and leave something in the tank for next year. The price of petrol is likely to rise in January, coupled with soaring medical costs. To complete the triple whammy, there is also a possibility of an interest rate hike. Interest rate hikes in the US, the world s biggest economy, has seen the rand weakening to R14.18/$, its lowest since November 25. The US Federal Reserve also hinted that rates could rise faster next year than investors had been expecting, a move traders and analysts said would be rand-negative. This could accelerate the depreciation of the rand, with the knockon effect of higher local inflation as import prices rise, Sanlam Investments analyst Arthur Kamp said. Healthcare inflation is expected to reach double digits next year, which will give further impetus to the National Health Insurance (NHI) initiative aimed at making healthcare more accessible and affordable. Medical insurance is becoming more unaffordable, especially for consumers who do not receive it as a benefit from their employer. Roseanne da Silva, president of the Actuarial Society of SA, says the affordability of medical aid schemes in the future will depend on a change of mindset from both members and healthcare providers. Escalating claims in 2016 have placed schemes under increasing financial pressure, likely to result in bigger fee increases next year, she said. Negligible economic growth, increased interest rates, inflation and basic costs of living have resulted in significant financial strain on consumers. Dr Bobby Ramasia of Bonitas said: Rising costs of hospital admissions and medical inflation has, as expected, surpassed the consumer price index by between 3% and 5%. South African medical aids have already announced fee increases for 2017. Bonitas s premium increase for next year is 11.9%, Bestmed at 10.98%, Discovery at 10.2%, Medihelp at 10.9% and Momentum at 11.0%. The NHI, which was expected to start in April, has been delayed. Debt Rescue CEO Neil Roets said 2016 was a difficult year and 2017 could be even tougher with the probability of interest rates going up. -Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za 