&nbsp;It will be the icing on the cake for Mamelodi Sundowns if they cap off the year with a victory against Baroka FC in a league match at Peter Mokaba Stadium tonight.The year will go down as one of the most successful ones for Sundowns after they made history by winning their first CAF Champions League title and in the process became the first South African team to book a ticket for the Fifa Club World Cup.It s a year that will last long in the memories of the players and the club s management.Tonight, they conclude it with a visit to Polokwane and struggling Baroka as Sundowns look for three points, which will take them into the top-eight realm.Sundowns are in ninth with 16 points from eight matches and have played five games less than yesterday s log leaders, Wits. As a team, we are professional enough to know that every game we play is important, Sundowns midfielder Hlompho Kekana said. We are looking forward to the match. It will be a very good year end for us. We need to close with a victory. We want to see ourselves up there with the top four teams. With the Club World Cup in Japan now concluded, Downs focus will be on the PSL before they begin fulfilling their Champions League assignments in three months time.Kekana, who is one of 10 nominees for the Fifa Puskas Award for his Afcon qualifier goal against Cameroon in March, said the Brazilians would approach this fixture cold-bloodedly. We have a huge responsibility as players to make sure we play every match well and win it irrespective of the opponents, he said. We don t read too much into them. We want to do well and make sure we win the match. Baroka, on the other hand, go into the match without a victory from their last eight matches and face a daunting task against the champions.The last time they recorded a victory was on October 15 when they edged Cape Town City 2-1 away.They were sitting second from the bottom with 12 points from 14 matches before last night s league fixtures.Neville Khoza| nevillek@thenewage.co.za