WHY is it that a man feels at his sexiest when he wakes up in the morning but a woman wants to go back to sleep? And why, late at night, when a woman is in the mood for love, is her man just lying there, snoring? It all comes down to hormones. Here s why our sex clocks don t always tick in time.MorningEven before a man wakes up, his testosterone levels are at their peak, between 25-50% more than at any other time of the day. That s because the pituitary gland, which governs the production of the male sex hormone, has been switched on in the night and levels have been steadily rising until dawn.Women also make testosterone, the main sex drive hormone, but produce a fraction of the amount and it rises by only a tiny bit overnight. It is also kept in balance by oestrogen and progesterone. Men need only a normal amount of testosterone to feel like having sex. The raised levels in the morning means most men will wake up two to three times a week with erections.Slept well? A good kip is another reason a man may feel even more amorous in the morning. Studies have found that the longer and deeper a man has slept, the higher his testosterone levels. Research in the Journal of the American Medical Association shows getting more than five hours of sleep can raise male levels by an extra 15%.While a man s levels of sex hormones are at their highest when he wakes up, a woman s are at their lowest. Male and female testosterone levels are at their highest at opposite ends of the day, so they are out of sync, says consultant gynaecologist Gabrielle Downey of the Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust.Downey says it takes more than hormones to get a woman in the mood, so men need to make an active effort.The hormones of women rise and fall more during their monthly cycle than through the course of a day. At their height, midway through her cycle, a woman s levels of testosterone will be 30 times higher than at the start.Evening As the evening approaches, the levels of testosterone in men start to fall while the sex hormones of women gradually rise. Studies have shown that an after-work gym session can boost the libido of both genders. Research by scientists at the University of California, San Diego, found men who exercised had a boosted libido.They also reported having 30% more sex and 26% more orgasms. A University of Texas study showed that women who had 20 minutes of cardio were more aroused by seeing an erotic film than those who had not exercised.When it s time to unwind after a stressful day, even putting on music can affect sex hormone levels. A Japanese study by Nara University found that music boosted testosterone levels significantly in women but had the opposite effect in men.Researchers believe the reason is that music may make women feel more relaxed, bonded and in turn more sexual, while in men it calms their aggression and in turn reduces their levels of testosterone.Even though men s testosterone levels are at their lowest as the evening progresses, they are still more likely to have sex as their levels are still running higher than that a woman, Downey says. She adds that once they are making love, if a woman s testosterone levels are peaking because of where she is during her cycle, around the 13th day, her orgasms are more intense and they will be felt all over the body.This article first appeared on The Times of India