Lucky Moholo, 41, from Thabong near Welkom says unemployment made him stronger and turned him into a better man.Moholo said that unlike many other people who are demoralised by unemployment and waiting for the government to provide jobs, he came up with a plan to put food on the table both literally and figuratively.He says he started a vegetable garden in his back yard, which allows him to sell fresh, home-grown produce to neighbours and cr ches. I used to plant vegetables but not many. I never thought that I would be able to make a living off growing vegetables. I used to have to survive on the meagre salaries of the temporary jobs I was doing, and my life was difficult. I was feeling the heat of unemployment emotionally and I never wanted it to knock me down. I then came up with the idea of having a backyard garden, as the department of agriculture motivated us to have backyard gardens and make money, Moholo said.He said he started the initiative a few years ago, but things were not going well since the soil was poor. He then enriched the soil with manure and since then both his garden and business have improved.Moholo said he tried to get other people to work with him, but that idea did not work out. Since then, he has continued his venture alone, supplying the capital needed out of his own pocket. My garden consists of spinach, onion, carrots, green pepper, pumpkin and sweet potatoes. I use nets to protect my plants against the elements and birds when they are still small. Besides the support from the neighbours, I supply Makhotso Day Care Centre with vegetables every Wednesday, he said.Moholo said that he likes farming and wants to expand his business. He said that he would like to supply more residents with his produce and sell his produce to supermarkets. My other wish is to have a Jojo tank, a two tunnel net, two hosepipes, and a borehole. I will have to ask the agricultural department for support in buying those things, Moholo said.Talking about the drought, Moholo said he knew how and when to water his garden so that the water would not evaporate.He said he had overcome the challenges of drought and heat and he was prepared to pass on his knowledge to the youth Anyone who wants produce can contact me on 0714453568, Moholo said.BECKER SEMELAbeckers@thenewage.co.za