The Southern African Faith Communities Environment Institute (Safcei) and Earthlife Africa Johannesburg (ELA-JHB) head to the Cape Town High Court today and tomorrow to challenge the nuclear procurement process, which has been shrouded in secrecy and misinformation, the organisations said yesterday.Following the Department of Energy s (DoE s) presentation in November, the two groups and their supporters say the government s approach to energy planning is an infringement of citizens human rights. Safcei encourages all South Africans to support its court case and attend the hearing. Liz McDaid, spokesperson for Safcei, says that hopes for a more progressive, better informed and transparent energy policy framework is rapidly fading.While the DoE s base case shows no need for nuclear until 2037, it makes a number of nuclear-friendly assumptions and provides no insight into a scenario with unconstrained renewables. There are a number of problems with the government s proposed energy plans, but the most dangerous is their almost linear focus on only nuclear.There is no evidence they spent any time or money investigating renewables, and no comparable costs were provided for other energy choices. To support its drive for nuclear, McDaid says, the DoE argues that South Africa s GDP growth of 0.9% will miraculously spike to 2.4% next year , and will grow at this rate for the next 20 years. Of course, such a growth in industry would need increased electricity to meet the demand. The DoE will use these exaggerated projections for energy demand to justify the need for additional power plants, which the model adjusts accordingly.With no sensible explanation, other than to manipulate the model, the DoE then constrains the amount of renewables that the model can build. It then brings in the next cheapest energy choices coal and gas but constrains fossil fuels (for climate change) and suddenly large amounts of nuclear power is needed, she explains . There is no indication that the DoE even considered any Council of Scientifi and Industrial Research data, which puts costs for producing energy from renewables at 62c/Kwh when compared to the 105c/Kwh for coal. The R200m already spent all but confirms the government s intentions to primarily invest in nuclear, she said. Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson blames the lack of investment in renewables on the limitations with the current energy infrastructure, but rather than giving attention and budget to upgrading, this is used as an excuse to eliminate further renewables from the equation. The decision to restrict further development of renewables could mean that the R160m earmarked for upgrading the grid will not include upgrades that integrate renewables. Another issue of concern is Eskom s influence in the government s decision making.The parastatal will be taking charge of the nuclear build programme and wants to start the tender process before year end. Their argument is that we need to start now to be able to commence with the new builds by 2026, to be in time for the 2037 deadline. But a conflict of interest could be behind Eskom s reluctance to move toward decentralising the energy supply, McDaid said. She said the estimated R1 trillion price tag for nuclear only covers the costs of setting up the nuclear plants.The long-term costs and risks related to civil safety and reducing environmental impact (incurred during uranium mining and transport, and waste storage) are not included. Khulu Pasiwe, Eskom spokesperson, yesterday said the court matter was actually against the DoE and Eskom. Our position is that the government s energy policy includes a mixture of all energy sources, including nuclear, and Eskom is working within that framework to ensure security of supply. -Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za