In the eyes of John Steenhuisen, the Member of Parliament who has been the point person in the DA s parliamentary offensive against the ANC, it s been a bad year for the government and a good one for the opposition.Addressing the media in an end-of-term briefing, which was attended by deputy DA chief whip Mike Waters and national spokesperson Phumzile van Damme, Steenhuisen was as forthright as ever.He vowed that the DA would continue in 2017 with what it has been doing this year: holding the ANC to account.The past year, he said, was a very interesting one, adding local government elections have taken the wind out of ANC sails .It appeared to him that the deeper problems in the ANC were starting to manifest themselves in Parliament. It s been a great year for the opposition. We ve been able to consolidate. It s been a bad year for the government. It has become clear, he said, that ministers and the executive were not taking seriously their responsibility to account to Parliament despite several promises made by the leader of the government s business, Cyril Ramaphosa.Steenhuisen said: I sincerely hope that the leader of government business is going to take some strong action in this regard and gives consideration to the DA suggestion to him in the House during the course of this year that they look at docking ministers pay when they repeatedly miss oral questions. If we can hurt them financially it might encourage them to come to the House to be able to discharge their functions. He blamed the speaker of Parliament and ANC national chairperson Baleka Mbete for Parliament not functioning properly. The fact that she believes it is acceptable for ministers to respond in the way they do in writing, for ministers to miss oral question sessions and for the president and other members of the executive not to give proper answers in the House is shameful. In any functioning parliamentary democracy, he said, the speaker was supposed to perform her functions in an unbiased manner and in a way that ensured the participation of all parties. She is the custodian of this Parliament and its sovereignty and its dignity as a House. I think that Baleka Mbete has completely let down Parliament through her failure to discharge her duties as speaker to both the Constitution and the people of South Africa. He said: It is very clear she is here for one purpose and one purpose alone and that is to protect the president and the executive from accountability. At every single opportunity to put Parliament first she has failed. The biggest issues that the DA has driven this year have included the economy, jobs, service delivery, crime, corruption and education. While the ANC has dragged its feet, the DA has decided to confront and deal with several of these crises, Steenhuisen said.The DA would continue to put pressure on the government for accountability, he said. This what we mean when we say we are standing up for South Africa and its people. For example, the DA request for the public protector to investigate state capture has meant that South Africans finally knows some of the depths of mafia-like control that President Zuma and his Gupta cronies have had over our country. Steenhuisen said that the DA had done everything in it power to fight against the capture of the National Prosecuting Authority and the SABC and will continue to do so when the SABC inquiry continues this week .DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za