THE entertainment industry places a high premium on beauty. One could almost say that female beauty itself is considered entertainment. Myths and legends abound with stories of the most beautiful women in history and the power their beauty wielded.Helen of Troy had a face that launched a thousand ships, Nefertiti ruled Egypt and Grace Kelly became a real princess.Women have been immortalised in history for their beauty, but can such a privilege be considered a burden too?The concept of beauty is a fickle thing, with standards and trends shifting constantly. What s hot today could be not tomorrow. Women constantly have to jump through hoops to fit a particular standard of beauty and even worse when this standard is used to determine job prospects.For women in television, the concept of beauty does not always come with positive connotations. Beauty has also been reduced to being synonymous with lower intelligence or lack of skills. Admiration can very quickly turn into objectification in an industry that counts on the physical to attract revenue.What is the big deal about objectification, when it is still an act of recognising beauty? Well, it s the power to choose. Once a woman is objectified, she loses the power to choose how her beauty is translated and defined.An object can t speak back to the meanings attached to it. In this way, women are placed in boxes that determine what they can and can t do. An objectified woman is constructed so that the person who objectifies her has total power to decide how she can be of use.Charlize Theron recently spoke about this regarding her first Hollywood role in 2 Days In The Valley. Someone thought it was a good idea to market almost the entire movie on me objectifying me a little bit. I got a lot of attention from it, but the problem was that afterwards it was like, we want you to do that again can you just do that? she said.The Benoni born beauty said she had to settle for lesser roles and was the first to be turned away at castings. When meaty roles come through, I ve been in the room and pretty people get turned away first, she told GQ early this year.Lost star Evangeline Lilly is another Hollywood actress who finds her good looks to be depressing. I spent many nights crying myself to sleep wishing I was ugly because of the way men leered and disrespected me, because they assumed things about my mental capacity or my physical willingness based on the way I look, she told Elle in 2006.Nomzamo Mbatha is hailed as one of the most beautiful actresses in South Africa right now, appearing on popular drama series Isibaya. However, she refuses to be just a pretty actress. You know the funny thing about being in this industry, especially if you re such a sought after actress and I say this with the utmost humility a lot of things are thrown at you, but you must be very careful in terms of choosing the right roles. On the types of characters she chooses, Mabatha says: It s rooted, it s chunky, it s meaty, it s something that s going to impact someone s life. So I don t take fluffy, wishy-washy characters. It may seem easy though to just choose these meaty roles and avoid the fluffy stuff, but when starting out many young actresses have to choose between survival and dignity. That simply is not fair. Getting to the point where you can turn roles down, takes time and constant resistance which in some cases have ended careers.For those who believe that this argument can be applied to men too, think again. A man being objectified as a sex symbol does not limit the range of roles he can be eligible for. Today a stripper, tomorrow a university professor. The biases are deeply gendered, which is why this topic remains important.-Jamil Khan