Provincial spokesperson of Working on Fire (WoF) Wayne Mokhethi, said they were proud of two officials who donated blood to save lives recently.Rantho Mofokeng and Makhehleni Mthimkhulu donated blood in Bethlehem and Mokhethi said a unit of blood could save up to three lives of patients in dire need of blood. By becoming a regular blood donor, this ensures that the safety of blood is maintained and makes it possible for the South African National Blood Service (SANBS) to collect sufficient safe blood to meet the demand, Mokhethi said.He said Mofokeng and Mthimkhulu are team players in their Bravo team and lead their colleagues by example. They have taken it upon themselves to save as many lives apart from fighting fires as they can. Despite having to walk about 4km to and from the SANBS centre, they decided to donate blood at their local South African National Blood Services (SANBS) centre and every time they donate blood, they save three lives each, Mokhethi said.Mofokeng said they noticed the decline in fire activity in their area and decided to be innovative in saving lives and donating blood is another way to save lives as the fire season has ended. We were also informed of the shortage of blood during this season and decided to contribute positively to help ease the situation, Mofokeng said.SANBS spokesperson Rochelle van der Merwe, said it was quite safe to donate blood with them and their personnel take the necessary safety measures to ensure that donors don t get a transmissible disease by donating blood. They use new, sterile and disposable equipment (blood bags, tubes and finger prick needle and other needles) for each donation. These are used only once for every blood donation, discarded in a specialised waste container and incinerated, Van der Merwe said.She said further assessments include a finger prick test in order to make sure that the donor s haemoglobin level is within a safe range for donation purposes. In addition, your pulse rate and blood pressure will be checked, you must also weigh at least 50kg or more, be between 16 and 65 of age and in good health, she said. Potential donors will be permitted to donate only if these measurements are within the defined, acceptable range. She thanked the two WoF officials and added that their donation is important because during the festive season they see a decline in people donating blood due to schools and businesses closing. We would like to encourage everybody to come and donate because blood is needed on a daily basis Van der Merwe said.BECKER SEMELA