Mining production declined by 6.9% between the beginning of this year and the end of August, according to Statistics South Africa (SSA) while low commodity prices and rising costs have kept the mining industry under severe pressure during the past year. The effects of the low commodity price environment are compounded by the continued rise in operating cost. These include above inflation increases in labour and electricity costs, Annabel Bishop, economist at Investec, in a recent note to clients, said.Bishop said in an effort to remain profitable many mining companies have been forced to reduce both their capital expenditure and head counts.Mike Sch ssler, economist and director at Economists.co.za, said. The gold price is looking better so gold mining is doing well, but the real pressure is on coal and iron ore. Coal could face a terminal decline as the word switches to new technology to make increasing use of gas and renewable energy sources. Smaller minerals like manganese and chrome are also struggling. SSA figures show that the production of manganese ore was 13.7% lower in August compared to a year ago, while the production of nickel was 20.6% lower.Gareth Cremen, a partner specialising in business rescue at the Johannesburg office of global law firm Hogan Lovells, said struggling companies often remain in denial about their financial position until it was too late. They keep telling themselves things like we just need this one big contract or prices will pick up soon . This means they fail to seek much needed help and by the time reality sets in it s far too late. Cremen said many directors were still not aware of how business rescue could be used to save struggling mining companies if they acted soon enough. This could mean the difference between failing during a difficult period and surviving to take advantage of an improvement in conditions.Business rescue was introduced in the Companies Act as a legal process aimed at restructuring companies which are in financial distress in order to save them. The first goal of effective business rescue is to rescue a company from financial distress and avoid liquidation. If this is not possible, the goal becomes to implement a business rescue plan that should result in a better return for the creditors or shareholders of the company than immediate liquidation would. Ultimately business rescue is a win-win situation in comparison to flat out liquidation. It was developed with the aim of saving jobs, while with liquidation all employees usually lose their jobs. Cremen said the Companies Act made it easy for ordinary people, professionals, directors and even employees to put a company into rescue. The procedure to begin business rescue was created with the man in the street in mind and it s not just for attorneys. The board of a company can make the decision to go into rescue or any affected person, this includes shareholders, creditors, employees and trade unions representing them, may also apply for a court order for business rescue. This means that creditors can also use business rescue as a way of collecting debts owed to them. Placing a company into business rescue ensure that you, as the creditor, can appoint a business rescue practitioner that is truly independent and will look after the interests of all stakeholders. Business rescue in the right hands should yield a higher return to creditors than if that company were to be liquidated. To qualify for business rescue a company must be financially distressed .That it is unlikely that it will be able to pay its debts as they become due over the next six months or if it seems likely the company will become insolvent within six months. Once placed under business rescue the affected person or company then nominates a rescue practitioner to oversee the company while it is under business rescue.Sello Rabothatasellor@thenewage.co.za