Using bird poop, bee sting, blood, placenta and leech to get great skin and gorgeous hair is not new. But if you are going &#8216;eew!&#8217; thinking of these, then you need to rethink about the lastest researches (bizzare and otherwise) done on semen and the supposedly host of benefits this baby-making batter is touted to have. Researchers have found that exposure to semen is good for women&#8217;s health because of the mood-altering chemicals of this body fluid. Earlier research had shown that these chemicals not just elevate mood, increase affection and induce sleep, but also contain vitamins and anti-depressants.Elevates your mood Doctors say that when women have an orgasm, then the &#8216;love hormone&#8217; oxytocin is released and this helps to elevate their mood. Sexologist Dr Prakash Kothari says, &#8220;Orgasm for men could work as an anti-depressant because the moment a man ejaculates he gets tremendous pleasure that gets rid of all worries and issues he might have.&#8221;Helps you deal with insomnia Post a good time between the sheets, one is worn out and believes that it is the reason for the undisturbed sleep that follows. Studies say that whether one ingests semen or it enters your bloodstream vaginally, it helps you doze off better because it contains the chemical melatonin. This relaxes a person and helps to induce sleep. Dr Kothari, however states, &#8220;Benefits like sleeping better etc is not beacuse one has swallowed semen it is because when a female reaches orgasm, she gets a feeling of &#8216;enough and nothing more&#8217; oxytocin is released and that leads to a feeling of intense well-being. The pain stimulus is less and you feel better in every way. But all this happens only provided she reaches an orgasm and climax.&#8221;Semen in cocktails There is a book on semen cocktails that talks about recipes, semen storage, flavour enhancement tips and more. The author, Paul Fotie Photenhauer, has reportedly said that just like fine wine and cheeses, the taste of semen is complex and dynamic. It also has a wonderful texture and amazing cooking properties.Semen could lower depression Researchers GG Gallup, RL Burch, and psychologist Steven M Platek of the State University of New York, conducted a survey and compared sex lives of 293 females to their mental health. They hypothesied that women who are exposed to semen showed fewer signs of depression.Sexing up your hair Now you can do that quite literally! Salons abroad, use bull semen to give celebrity clients a shiny and strong crowning glory.In facials too The American actress Heather Deen Locklear was quoted saying that semen on the face can work as an anti-ageing product. Researchers have found that human semen has spermine which is a powerful anti-oxidant. It has been found to diminish wrinkles and smoothen skin. Now, the substance is synthesised in laboratories and sold by international companies.Keep in mind&#8230; Care must be taken when it comes to swallowing semen. It might have viruses, which could be transmitted if consumed. Sexologist Dr Prakash Kothari warns that oral sex could lead to sexually transmitted infections (STIs), Hepatitis B and C, herpes, and Chlamydia, if there is an open sore in the mouth or if a person has gingivitis and bleeding gums.He states, &#8220;Swallowing semen, a waste product, does not harm one but it does not have many benefits. Holding on to it does not benefit any man. The quantity ejaculated is too small to benefit or give vitality to the opposite person.&#8221;Clinical nutritionist Dr Nupur Krishnan adds, &#8220;There is no proof that semen contains multivitamins and anti-depressants.&#8221;What is semen composed of? Around two to five per cent of the semen has sperms and the rest is made of secretions from male reproductive organs. Semen contains hormones, endorphins, neurotransmitters and immunosuppressants, DNA, fructose, citric acid, free amino acids, fructose, enzymes, phosphorylcholine, prostaglandin, potassium, ascorbic acid, calcium, magnesium, vitamin B12, sodium, uric acid, lactic acid, nitrogen, vitamin C and a variety of proteins that have antimicrobial activity against bacteria, viruses and fungi.and zinc.Heard this? There are some tribes in Papua New Guinea who believe that if younger men fellate their elders the semen of older men can bestow manliness and wisdom to the younger men.This article first appeared on The Times of India&nbsp;