Funeral costs have spiked with South Africans not hesitating to splurge between R15 000 and R150000 on the final journey of their loved ones.On their loved ones burials with the cost of a funeral ranging Collinge &amp; Co funeral director Mike Collinge said a simple funeral covering the essentials such as a casket, catering and transport cost at least R15000. You re able to get a very simple funeral for R15000, but you would also be able to spend more than R150000 on a lavish funeral, complete with casket and Porsche Cayenne family cars, Collinge said.The most expensive part of a funeral is the casket.A Soweto father of three said that funerals have become a big expense becuse of the requirements that accompany burial. As Africans a decent send off is measured by the number of guests that attend but people come at a cost to the grieving family. You have to pay for the food, transport to the cemetery and sometimes an after tears party as well, he said.He said most African families shun cremation and opt for big burials and tombstones.Avbob Mutual Assurance Society s cheapest casket costs around R6 565 while its top of the range casket sells for R37 500. Collinge said that the cost of a funeral depended on the requirements of the family. Depending on what the family wants, the cost of one funeral would be different to the next. For instance, if the family requires a more expensive coffin or casket and additional services such as the provision of a tent and/or catering and family cars it will affect the price of a funeral.For this reason the average cost could be misleading, clarifies Collinge. Avbob group communication manager Marius du Plessis said that the services required for a burial and cremation were the same and the costs were similar. If it s cremation you still need to buy a coffin/casket for a cremation and then there is a cremation cost (about R2 500) which is over and above the service price. On the other hand, if a burial is preferred, you have to purchase a grave which depending on the local municipality, can range between R1 500 and R6000. Therefore the costs associated with burial and cremation are very similar and once again it largely depends on what the family want. Funeral parlours charge R5 000 for a private cremation and a chapel cremation starts at R9000.Collinge proposes that people invest in insurance cover. The National Funerals Directors Association (NFDA) suggests that people call various funeral companies in their area, and ask for a quotation based on their perceived needs, so they can get an indication of what that specific type of funeral will cost. There are many insurance companies and funeral parlours who offer insurance to cover the cost of a funeral, Collinge said.Collinge warned people to buy insurance from a reputable company. Du Plessis said that Avbob policyholders who make use of Avbob s services receive free benefits.