CHIPPA United coach Dan Malesela admitted that he had been feeling a lot of pressure prior to their 3-1 victory over Kaizer Chiefs at the weekend. Before the match, Malesela had gone eight matches without a win. He knew by instinct that he had to change the fortunes of the club around and there was an expectation to improve the situation. It is now history and he did that in style, impressively defeating Chiefs. I am quite happy. We needed the victory against Kaizer Chiefs. I know that Steve Komphela needed a win too, Malesela said. I was happy with the efforts the boys have made. The win has given us breathing space. Our next game is next Wednesday. It also gives time to reflect as well. When you reflect with a win, it is better than when you have a lot of things to think about and the pressure you endure as a result of poor results. It is good for us now going forward. The former Orlando Pirates and Mamelodi Sundowns defender said he had been hard on his players following a string of poor results, but his harsh words appear to be paying dividends. We hope this win will bring confidence to the club. We needed this kind of motivation. It also relieves a bit of pressure on the players, Malesela said. I have been putting a lot of pressure on them and I hope this will be of some little comfort to them now that they are seeing the fruits of their efforts. I have been hard and even hurling insults at them, with some of them left crying. We are trying to get things right. We are trying to find reasons doing the right things at training. But players tend to do things differently, and this cannot be acceptable. There must be reasons why you trap, kick and pass the ball. I have been putting pressure on them and there is a glimpse of hope. Chippa United s next assignment is against Polokwane City on December 14 and Malesela will go there without too much stress. He will hope the in-form Rhulani Manzini will continue with his scoring exploits. We are always under pressure, and every team in the league is under pressure because we all have different demands from different people. We sit here as individuals but we have to satisfy a lot of people, not only members of the club, but we have to satisfy the media, the supporters and your friends and family. nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza