Tired of your man&#8217;s lack lustre libido? Want him to make passionate love to you? Follow these nine stimulation techniques to pep up your man&#8217;s sexual appetite.1. Tie Him Up: Take control and get your man all tied up. Buy silky tights to tie him up loosely to the bed post above his head. Keep his head propped up with a pillow so that he can see your wild moves. All guys love being dominated and you will get a high by watching your guy&#8217;s desire for you rise.2. Wet Pleasures: Guys just love making out in the shower. Kissing under a shower is a sure fire way of getting the sexual action kick started. Work up lather and sensuously wash each others&#8217; bodies. It will leave you feeling fresh for the real action to follow.3. Girlie Groping: Ignite your youthful lust by making out in the last row of a cinema or indulging in some heavy petting on the couch until you are both hot and ready.4. Dress it up: Walk around the house clad in lacy underwear and some killer stilletoes. Your man will love nothing more than to watch you strut sexily around the house.5. Dirty dancing: Erotic slow dancing is great tool of seduction. Enjoy a sensual dance which is the perfect appetiser for some raunchy bedroom antics.6. Mirror image: Learn to master body language techniques to let him know you are interested in sex. Try and mimick some of his actions to turn him on. Don&#8217;t copy everything he does. Instead if he leans towards you, lean into him at the same time, making passionate eye contact all the while.7. Maximise a massage: Make your man lie down on the bed and apply warm oil on his aching body. Use lingering sensuous strokes along his back and down his legs making sure his body relaxes.8. In the outdoors: Foreplay doesn&#8217;t need to be restricted to the bedroom; all men love sex in the open. Make love under the stars and land in sexual heaven.9. Teasing talk: Men too love a bit of naughty talk. Whisper sweet nothings into his ear describing all the things you would like to do to him, or have him do to you. Alternatively send him a sexy SMS letting him know he is in for a treat.This article first appeared on The Times of India