Community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi Malobane has criticised the police s handling of the case of a Lenasia south woman who was apparently killed by police in a case of mistaken identity.Nkosi-Malobane said the crime scene management and the lack of sensitivity towards the woman s family left much to be desired. They cannot do what they did to this poor family. We will be getting counselling for the family which will continue until they are okay. We are working with community patrollers to make sure we deal with this case, she said.The MEC also met with provincial and cluster commissioners of the police to find out why they did not visit the family.The victim, Retha Pillay, 52, was in the back seat of a family car when she was shot in the back of the head. She died minutes later while her son was driving her to a nearby clinic.Pillay, her son, her daughter, and two other occupants were coming home from buying food at around 1am. As they were about to pull into their driveway, they heard gunshots. A relative claimed that a police car approached them and started firing without getting out of their vehicle to find out who was in the car.The relative said the son tried to drive to a nearby clinic, but police followed them and continued to fire. The son then confronted them at the clinic and the police sped away.The family said all they wanted was justice for Retha . They will not get away with it because they have taken an innocent woman s life, her daughter said.Deshnika Pillay, 19, was shot in the leg while police were allegedly following the family to the clinic. She is recovering from surgery at home.She said after the incident she went into shock and only found out about her mother s death the next day. Right now I have not even come to terms with my mother s death, let alone being shot. I have to go through physio because I cannot walk. I cannot do anything for myself. I hope we get justice, she said. How do you get through life without your mom? She was very bubbly and jovial. She was carefree and always willing to help, she said.The case is being investigated by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate.Nkosi-Malobane said she had full confidence in the team handling the case.LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za