Msunduzi mayor Themba Njilo has urged Pietermaritzburg residents to stop illegally of disposing their waste as it puts their health and that of the municipal workers at risk.Yesterday, Njilo and a team of young people from Henley rolled up their sleeves and cleaned up the areas that some residents had been using as illegal dumping sites. I m starting here in Ward 5 today but I will be going around the entire municipality throughout the festive season because illegal dumping is a problem and I for one cannot turn a blind eye to it. Our people need to be taught that this is not acceptable, Njilo said.Among the items they picked up were disposable nappies, corpses of dead animals, old clothes and other household waste. Njilo said it was concerning that people ignored the health risks posed by the dumped waste and their failure to report illegal dumping to the municipality. When waste is in the open like this, sometimes children are tempted to come and dig into it and I don t even want to imagine what germs they would pick up. Also if you have pets, like dogs, there is a likelihood that they will come to this dump site as well and they will also be exposed. After cleaning up, the Msunduzi parks department planted flowers and trees to beautify the area and put up signage warning people that it was against the law to dump trash in the area. Njilo said he would be working with councillors and ward committees to ensure that communities adhere to the municipal by-laws. I will be monitoring all the areas that we are cleaning and if anyone is caught dumping their waste there, they will pay a minimum fine of R1000. On choosing to work on projects close to his heart instead of taking time to rest until council resumes, Njilo said he wanted to use the festive season to engage with young people before they go back to schools and universities. I decided to get young people involved in this campaign because they are our future. If we teach them now then we don t have to worry about such problems in the future. But This also gives me time with them so that they can talk to me about their vision for our city and also get their input on the work we do as elected leaders. 