The Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) has responded to the deaths of 23 initiates in the country since the beginning of the summer initiation season three weeks back.Cogta said that commercialisation and greed that corrupt initiation traditions and lead to death needs to be stopped. The Eastern Cape has recorded 17 deaths so far, the Western Cape comes second with four, while one death has been recorded in North West and another in the Northern Cape.Four young men in the Northern Cape have had their penises amputated due to botched circumcisions.On Monday, 22 female initiates were rescued from illegal initiation schools at De Deur and Evaton in Sedibeng. The message should be clear. Those who use this important cultural practice of our people to enrich themselves have no place in our communities. Let us all alert the authorities about bogus initiation schools and those who abduct our children, thus disgracing this important tradition, said Cogta spokesperson Legadima Leso. He said the tradition of initiation had been overshadowed by the negative trends that beset the practice, such as commercialisation, deaths, injuries and greed. Initiation schools are important for our communities, restoring dignity and pride to the African people. As a government, we support communities which practice their own cultures and traditions, including initiation, in a secure environment, he said.Leso said that despite the government s interventions, the tragic pattern of deaths at initiation schools persists. He urged parents to ensure that their children were medically prepared, that the initiation schools were duly registered and that the traditional surgeons and caregivers were qualified, able and prepared to curb the fatalities. Cogta has drafted a policy on the customary practice of initiation, which aims to provide acceptable norms and standards and protect initiates. It also seeks to ensure effective coordination and monitoring. Appropriate legislation will soon be approved by the Cabinet and will ensure measures are taken to deal with those who use this important practice for their own selfish benefit, Leso said.Batandwa Malingo| batandwam@thenewage.co.za