Had she known that Ellen Tshabalala had called a special meeting to appoint Hlaudi Motsoeneng as permanent chief operating officer (COO) at the SABC, board secretary Theresa Geldenhuys said she would have warned her about the wrongfulness of her actions.This was the evidence of Geldenhuys to Parliament s ad hoc committee s inquiry into the SABC board. She also told the hearing she had advised board chairperson Prof Mbulaheni Maguvhe to attend the hearing, but he had listened to the advice of his lawyers, which was to try to interdict the inquiry.Geldenhuys yesterday gave background to a board meeting where a decision was rammed through to make Motsoeneng s appointment as COO permanent.Former board chairperson Ellen Tshabalala had instructed her to convene a special board meeting. Because of time pressures she sent SMS messages to board members advising them of the meeting, Geldenhuys said.When she asked Tshabalala about an agenda for the meeting she was told that there were two matters: the public protector s report and also the matter of the COO. I asked her what matter of the COO? Geldenhuys said she assumed the COO matter was in connection with the public protector s findings about Motsoeneng. We arrived at the meeting and everything was different. She was not given the chance to advise the meeting about the wrongfulness of the process followed to employ Motsoeneng. I was not given an opportunity to advise. The chairperson of the board went straight in. It was as much of a surprise to me as to the other members. She could not raise issues such as the fact that the position was not advertised, she said. She was a forceful person who would not accept any advice from anyone. Geldenhuys wanted to duck a question on the purging of senior staff but ad hoc committee chairperson Vincent Smith told her she had to answer. A lot of people left. I did not participate in the purging of any staff members, she said.She said the SABC board was not a valid one because there were only two members left.On the walkout staged by the SABC delegation, including board chairperson Mbulaheni Maguvhe last Thursday, she apologised if she had offended MPs. She was part of the exit because she wanted to support Maguvhe, she said.She said her contract with the SABC expired on April 30 next year.She had wanted to retire but was asked to stay on to become group executive for governance and assurance pass. She is supposed to pass on her skills as part of succession planning.She denied that she was a director of SABC subsidiary company Rugby Broadcasting along with Motsoeneng. No I m not. I m the company secretary. It s a dormant company. Motsoeneng at the time was the only director. DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za