Mamelodi Sundowns defender Asavela Mbekile said he never thought he would take part in the Club World Cup.The talented wing-back, who was moved from midfield to defence by Pitso Mosimane because of a lack of opportunities in more creative roles, was one of the team s key performers en route to winning the CAF Champions League.The next step for the former Moroka Swallows and Chippa United player is the Club World Cup in Japan. I don t think I am the only player in the team who will tell you that this is a dream come true. Let me speak for myself and say I never anticipated this. Of course, when I joined Sundowns, I knew that I would challenge for trophies, but this Japan trip was never part of the list, Mbekile said. It is a great opportunity for us to test ourselves against the best in the world. It will not be easy because all the other teams want to win the tournament. The truth is that while we respect the other teams, it would be great to come up against Real Madrid in the final. For that to happen, we will have to fight harder than we have ever in our lives and we will all have to up our game. In the last few matches, Mosimane has rested Mbekile, preferring Thapelo Morena at right wing-back.Siyanda Zwane has also had cameo roles, but Mbekile believes he will play a bigger role in Japan. The beautiful thing about Sundowns is that we have a lot of quality players who can all do the job. I will not lie and say I am happy with not playing. Every player in this team wants to contribute and that is no different for me. I want to play at the Club World Cup because that is what we were working towards when we did well in the Champions League. I would like to get game time in Japan. The Brazilians arrived in Hong Kong yesterday morning, before taking a connecting flight to Osaka where they will be based for their next two matches.They will play their first match on Sunday against the winners of the first quarterfinal between Japanese side Kashima Antlers and New Zealand outfit Aukland City.If they are successful in that match, Sundowns will then proceed to the semifinal where they will come up against South American champions Atletico Nacionale of Colombia next Thursday.MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za&nbsp;&nbsp;