The safety of Emergency Medical Services (EMS) personnel is still threatened by gangs in the province.Areas declared as red zones for paramedics are those where medical personnel need to be escorted in and out by the South African Police Service to respond to emergency calls.The scourge of attacks on paramedics continue in Manenberg, Hanover Park, and sections of Mitchells Plain and Khayelitsha, resulting in the response time for emergencies being directly affected.There are cases of crew members being physically hurt and mentally traumatised after attacks by gangsters. We are aware of the personal and safety risks to our staff and thus we wish to show our solidarity with them; we are committed to making their environment as safe as possible, head of department Dr Beth Engelbrecht said.EMS provincial spokesperson Robert Daniels said their personnel encountered 46 crime-related incidents between January and August, which included assault, verbal abuse, highjacking, theft and armed robbery.The ambulance attacks are increasingly said to be taking place in those areas where emergency services are most needed. The police escorts operate an adhoc request system. If an escort is available the process is seamless, but when we do need to wait for an escort we operate only at the availability of a SAPS escort. We are not allowed to proceed to the patient without a police escort in a known dangerous area. The safety of EMS personnel is paramount to the delivery of an effective Emergency Medical Service. The safety of our personnel is our first priority, Daniels said.It is all but impossible to ensure the safety of EMS personnel since personnel need to go into any area where members of the public require emergency medical assistance, he said.Western Cape MEC for health Dr Nomafrench Mbombo said: Everyone individuals, the government, professional bodies, organised labour, political and civic leaders, the media and communities has a role to play to protect our health services. Increasingly, we see the alarm being raised by health workers themselves about violence or ill-treatment. It is time for the whole of society to realise that the safety of communities is inextricably linked to the safety of health workers. Whether it is attacks against EMS workers, who often work at unsafe hours, or whether it involves some other ill-treatment, we must unite to protect our health services, Mbombo said.The department has found that attacks on EMS staff were more likely to be linked to gang activity, whereas updated statistics showed an increase in the number of robberies and assault with a weapon. In cases where the situation in an area is deemed too unsafe for our staff, patients are informed that the response will be delayed due to safety concerns. The impact on our EMS response times, however, may cause life-saving services to be delayed, which is why we require maximum support from communities, police, and other community safety groupings, the department said. We work with the SAPS who escort ambulances into dangerous areas. This interferes with our response times as ambulance crews, on occasion, need to wait for a police escort at a police station in the response area, Daniels said.In August, in a bid to show society that the safety of health workers was not an individual s responsibility but society s.A symbolic walk to show solidarity included health workers, community members, hospital management, official, professional bodies, education partners and EMS staff.Paramedics have voiced their demands for improved security while on duty. In response, the Western Cape health department launched Operation Khuseleka, a staff safety initiative.Operation Khuseleka (to protect) aims to encourage cooperation within the broader society to help keep health workers safe.The violent attacks did not cease despite the walk. In September, personnel embarked on a march against further targeted attacks on them while on duty.The department is also running an extensive internal support programme to ensure its health workers are taken care of physically and mentally.This includes counselling services, support for medical injuries, active 24/7 management support and increased communication to keep staff informed.The department says about 80% of priority one emergency calls are attended to in 15 minutes or less.KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE