AFTER years of battling to contain road fatalities, the KwaZulu-Natal transport department believes it has finally turned the corner. The province, which recorded the highest number of accidents since 2014, is hoping that it s dubious record will be overtaken by another province. As a department we believe that we have made tremendous strides and are confident that the programmes we have in place will bring about drastic reduction in road accidents across the province, the department s spokesperson, Kwanele Ncalane, said. Accidents, particularly fatal crashes reached a peak during the 2014-15 festive season with 329 people killed on the province s roads.Drunk driving, speeding and poor policing were identified as some of the factors contributing to the carnage. Ncalane said the department had since then taken drastic steps to turn the situation around. Police visibility has since improved, even our MEC spends a lot of his time on our public roads engaging motorists on issues around road safety.We were also able to get a buy-in from various groups within the transport sector including taxi associations that have endorsed our road safety awareness campaign, he said. As a result of the department s aggressive campaign, the death toll in the April Easter weekend showed a significant drop with fewer than five fatal accidents reported over the period. But Ncalane conceded that it would be difficult for the province to achieve the best road safety record without the buy-in from the public. As much as we have been able to forge strong partnerships with organisations in the transport sector, it has been difficult to get its messages to the general public. What we want the public to realise and acknowledge is the fact that road safety is not an issue of government alone but a societal issue, he said.The province s roads are the busiest over holiday periods, particularly the festive season, when travellers heading to the province s holiday destinations such as Durban push up traffic volumes on the N3 Mooi River Toll Plaza to as many as 1 700 vehicles an hour.The partnership between the transport and health department, where the latter deploys additional personnel as well as equipment ranging from ambulances on public roads to ensure that those involved in crashes receive treatment promptly is also paying dividends.Health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo said: We have deployed our rescue vehicles that are equipped with hightech equipment and have the capacity to remove material or cut metal parts to access the entrapped patient, for big and multiple accident scenes. We have ambulance buses that are ready. provinces@thenewage.co.za-Clive Ndou