The unabated downward spiral into moral decay and brazen criminality came to the fore when 26 people including women and children aged between 14 and 37 were rescued from a brothel in Klerksdorp.This after the Hawks in North West raided a dingy building following a tip-off from community members on Friday.The Hawks found about 19 men, believed to be foreign nationals, who were taken in for questioning and immigration compliance processing.Provincial Hawks head Maj-Gen Linda Mbana said the incident was a typical example of how human trafficking works. We received a tip-off alleging that there were premises used as a brothel run by foreign nationals. The Hawks then launched an early morning raid and managed to rescue the women and children aged between 14 and 37, Mbana said.The females are all South Africans and they come from different parts of the country, some from North West, Northern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal, Free State, Johannesburg, Limpopo and Eastern Cape. Mbana said no arrests had been made yet though the Hawks are on a manhunt for the alleged kingpin behind the brothel. Investigations are also under way to determine if any of the men taken in for questioning are linked to the brothel. Government departments like social development, home affairs, the police and the National Prosecuting Authority are said to have joined to assist in the ongoing probe. The department of social development has been requested to see to the victims and see if they require any psychological support, Mbana said.National Hawks head Lt-Gen Mthandazo Ntlemeza applauded the work done by the investigating team that acted swiftly after receiving the tip-off.Ntlemeza further warned young women to be careful, especially during the festive season and towards the start of a new year. People get desperate for work that they ignore all the signs of a job that sounds too good to be true. These perpetrators prey on desperate job seekers and lure them under false pretences.We relent on our mandate and I have requested our North West team to dig deep to trace and arrest those responsible for this despicable act, Ntlemeza said.Community members have also expressed concern not only on the issue of the brothel but the carefree attitude most of the young women seem to have. We are a despicable lot. You see these young people falling for everything and despite warnings that are given time and again, they seem not to care, a community member who did not want to be named said. We were just in the 16 Days of Activism for no violence against women and children yet this brothel thing and many other isolated incidents happen under our noses. This is a shameful indictment on us as a society. ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za