SENSITIVE information about highprofile cases contained in the South African Police Service (SAPS) crime intelligence s server has been wiped, a source said.The sabotage at the head office in Pretoria occurred from June to August. The sabotage has resulted in the crime unit finding it difficult to retrieve crucial information from the server. Preliminary investigations have revealed that it was sabotage from outside with inside help, a source said.Some of the information apparently related to an espionage case against controversial forensic investigator Paul O Sullivan. Several crime intelligence officers were being investigated and are believed to be assisting O Sullivan with inside information relating to the top cops, the source said. O Sullivan has been fingered as the main source using his financial muscle to buy information from corrupt crime intelligence officers. The self-proclaimed forensic investigator has unleashed an offensive plot against some SAPS and Hawks officials to cast a shadow on the two law enforcement agencies. Police spokesperson Brig Selvy Mohlala didn t deny or confirm sabotage. We can t discuss or divulge any information regarding crime intelligence. As a result we are unable to comment further, he said.This charge has emerged as the Hawks gathered information from crime intelligence relating to cases against O Sullivan being investigated for espionage. Cyber crime expert Nkosinathi Ndlovu said if it was severe sabotage it meant everything had been wiped.Meanwhile, the Hawks have beefed up its team investigating O Sullivan in the wake of media reports about national police commissioner Kgomotso Phahlane s R8m house in Pretoria and a luxury BMW sports car. Head of the Hawks in Gauteng Lt-Gen Prince Mokotedi has reportedly told his team to work non-stop to gather convicting evidence.Mokotedi this week said he would beef up the team and that the gloves were now off. At the centre of the simmering war between the Hawks and O Sullivan is reportedly a crime intelligence server disc containing information about serious crimes committed against the state.It is alleged that the disc allowed O Sullivan to access confidential police information. The source said O Sullivan had been given the disc by a suspended police captain to access information illegally and to present it as legitimate. We fear that the information could continue to damage the reputation of law enforcement agencies on baseless allegations, another source said.However, O Sullivan who is challenging the charges in court, said: These are defamatory lies put out there by Zupta loyalists, or the dirty cops working with them. Print them and we ll be off to the press ombudsman with a complaint. He said the lies were being peddled to silence me for exposing corruption that goes right to the top of the police and the offices of the minister. It s rotten to the core and I will expose it. -PETER RAMOTHWALA