&nbsp;SAFA president Danny Jordaan hasn t given up on his ambition to lead the Council of Southern Africa Football Associations (Cosafa).Jordaan has again thrown his hat in the ring for the leadership of Southern African football and will contest the election when Cosafa holds its annual general meeting at Sun City in Rustenburg this weekend.The congress will appoint office bearers for the next five years and Jordaan has been confirmed as one of the three nominees for the position of president. Three nominations for the position of president were received prior to the November 2 deadline. These are for incumbent Suketu Patel, South African Football Association president Dr Danny Jordaan and Zimbabwe Football Association president Philip Chiyangwa, Cosafa said.The candidature of Jordaan, who is a cult figure in South African football, should receive widespread support. But the 2010 World Cup local organising committee chief executive appears determined to unseat incumbent Patel of the Seychelles and turn Cosafa into a financially viable association.The regional football body has struggled to attract major sponsorships and is hardly influential in continental football leadership. Jordaan successfully led Safa as CEO for more than a decade before he was seconded to the 2010 World Cup local organising committee where he did a sterling job that resulted in South Africa being awarded the rights to host the football showpiece.He has served Fifa in numerous capacities, including as general coordinator for the 2001 Fifa Confederations Cup and the 2002 World Cup in Korea and Japan. He was also a match commissioner for the 2006 World Cup in Germany.But strong canvassing of votes has often superseded experience for key positions. Jordaan withdrew from the presidential race five years ago when it became clear he didn t enjoy majority support from other Cosafa members. I presented proposals to change the structure of Cosafa but it was very clear that out of the 14 countries, my proposals were always split 7-7, Jordaan said at the time. So I decided that people were not ready for a new direction and a new vision. I will continue to work in football and perhaps I must spend more time strengthening my relationships (with other African administrators) on an individual basis. Jordaan seemingly made progress in that regard as he was later appointed as adviser to CAF president Issa Hayatou. During the general meeting, Cosafa will also elect its vice-president and executive committee, with the usual candidates such as David Fani of Botswana, Walter Nyamilandu Manda of Malawi, Namibian John Muinjo and Timothy Shongwe of Swaziland up for re-election.Kgomotso Sethusa|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za