Global and domestic factors, including perceptions of weakening governance and rising uncertainty regarding policy direction, are likely to weigh on South Africa s economic growth next year, the IMF said yesterday.This follows similar warnings by Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan that next year is going to be tough both economically and politically.But Gordhan says the country is on the recovery path and called on all stakeholders to work together for inclusive growth. After a visit to SA, the IMF said that the weak economic growth impedes the economy s ability to curb unemployment and inequality. Should the slowdown be prolonged, the state of the public finances would face greater risks from declining investor confidence, IMF said. On the same note, trade conditions for November published by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Sacci) yesterday revealed that trade conditions remain in negative territory measuring at 49 compared to 48 in October.However, the seasonally adjusted Trade Activity Index was six index points stronger in November than in November last year. November usually has an extraordinary seasonal element due to business-to-business trade being concluded before the holiday period of December. Respondents brought up political leadership, retrenchments, stiffer competition, downsizing of businesses, the weak economy and shrinking markets as inhibiting factors during this month s survey, Richard Downing Sacci economist said.He says it is expected that trade volumes and trade conditions will remain tight over the holiday period although the typical shift in trade will favour retail trade over the festive season. Another domestic economic survey, the BankservAfrica Economic Transaction Index (BETI) also confirms a weak local economy.It suggested that SA s per capita recession will continue into next year. The November 2016 BETI was 1.2% lower year on year, reflecting the weak domestic economy this year, according to Caroline Belrose, head of fraud and data analytics at BankserAfrica. The domestic economy is still in a vicious downswing and these figures suggest that a further GDP decline may be on the cards in the fourth quarter of this year and a disappointing 0.2% in the third quarter. Although the country is not yet in recession, it is in per capita recession as income per capita has been in decline for a long period with South Africa s economic growth being slower than population growth, Belrose said.She said in real terms, South Africans have seen their income decline for three years on average. All these indicators suggest that next year could be the fourth year of the per capita recession. South Africans are poorer than they were in 2012 in real terms. Mike Sch ssler, chief economist at Economists.co.za, agreed that the domestic spending and domestic production were both in the doldrums last year dragging down local growth.Bernard Sethakge| bernards@thenewage.co.za