Supersport United coach Stuart Baxter is not surprised by the impressive work Eric Tinkler has put in at Cape Town City since he took over in August.In fact, he believes Tinkler is one of the younger coaches with a bright future in football. Tinkler has guided City to their first cup final in their first six months of existence.They meet SuperSport in the Telkom Knockout final at Peter Mokaba stadium on Saturday, as well as heading the Absa Premiership log. I m not surprised, I think Eric is one of the young coaches in this country that has a bright future, Baxter said. He has done a lot and I think he did a good job with Pirates. Whenever you talk to him about the game, he knows what he is talking about and he s got a belief in what he is doing. He came to an open book with Cape Town City, it s a new start for him and for them. I think they have found each other nicely. Eric is going to continue to do well. In May, Baxter edged Tinkler 3-2 in the Nedbank Cup final while the former Bafana midfielder was in charge of Orlando Pirates. Cape Town City are going to be a very difficult opponent. They are probably the team in the country at the moment that is surprising everybody. But I m not surprised with a team that were fourth in the league last season and got a new coach who organised them well and is kicking on from where they were last year. You should not think they are flying high temporarily, they deserve it and we are preparing for a difficult game. The former Kaizer Chiefs coach also hinted that striker Jeremy Brockie is likely to start after recovering from a horror injury he sustained against Pirates two weeks ago. Brockie trained this morning (yesterday) but did not do the whole session. He will be tested and we ll see what reaction he gets. Bradley Grobler is going to do sort of half and half. I say at the moment, Brockie is a probable and Grobler is a possible. I think that can both change, at the moment that s how they are. Neville Khoza| nevillek@ thenewage.co.za &nbsp;