HE MAY not have won the 2015 season of The Hustle, a hip hop TV show tasked with unearthing SA s new hip hop sensation, but SA rapper Shane Eagle, real name Shane Hughes, has had a phenomenal 2016.He has released two well-received hit singles, Now Or Never with the likes of Kwesta and Reason as well as Top Floor, a collaborative track with fellow Hustle contestant and eventual winner of the 2015 competition, Big Star Johnson, as well as two of his very own singles Cutting Corners as well as Way Up among other things.The crowning jewel for the rapper was being one of the opening acts for his idol, J Cole, during his one night only performance at the TicketPro Dome in June. It has been an amazing and crazy year for me, Eagle said. But the highlight of course was performing at the J Cole concert. J Cole is my idol and sharing the same stage with him has been the highlight of my career and one of the best moments this year. The rapper is also happy with the song Now or Never which is in the running for song of the year at the SA Hip Hop Awards at the Lyric Theatre tomorrow.The song by DJ Switch has been hailed as SA s version of Big Sean s collaborative track Control.Shane Eagle s verse has had the hip hop community praising him for shining bright among notable hip hop veterans such as Proverb and Reason. Eagle produced hit song Way Up, which features the winner of the first season, Bigstar Johnson.Besides being a favourite with hip hop heads, Shane Eagle has also proved a natural on the screen. While 2016 has been a crazy year for me, I want keep on expanding my brand and my reach. It does not make sense to do only one thing in 2016 and I have had the opportunity of being a TV host of Vuzu Entertainment. This opportunity came as a result of my musical talent and though I might now be a TV personality, music still comes first and I am looking forward to releasing my debut project in the first half of 2017 as a way to leverage on what 2016 has been about as far as Shane Eagle is concerned. Though the project is yet to have an official name attached to it, the rising star of SA hip hop said that he was looking at no more than 11 tracks on the album with just 15% of work remaining to complete it. There won t be any features on this one. It will strictly be Shane Eagle, collaborations are good when they are effortless and not forced. He said his love for music was inspired by having siblings who would play music at home. There was always music at home growing up, my siblings were into Alicia Keys and Jill Scott, on the hip hop side of things, I grew up on Tupac, courtesy of my older bothers and then later on as I started rapping, the likes of Jay Z, 50 Cent and Lil Wayne were notable influences. Shane s debut single was released on October 8, 2015. This year, to build on the solid work he did on The Hustle, the rapper released his follow up single, I m Back, through his own record label Eagle Entertainment on May 27 after parting ways with his mentor JR.In September, the irrepressible rapper went on to release a music video for his latest single Cutting Corners which premiered on Channel O.What a year 2016 has been for one of the brightest rappers in SA.-Siyabonga Sithole