&nbsp;From notorious underworld criminals to police officers gone bad, serial rapists and serial killers, the South African criminal courts saw it all in 2016 and judges were not shy to dish out lengthy sentences.But it was the two young men Mpho Rakgwale 24 and Legion Mabunda 23, who shocked the South African criminal law system by being the youngest serial rapists and serial killers in history. The two men, who it is suspected started committing crimes in their early teens, are both serving multiple life sentences.Rakgwale was sentenced to nine life sentences and 277 years in prison early this year for 17 convictions for rape and kidnapping.Most of the victims were in high school when the rapes occurred between 2007 and 2012. Some were his friends and neighbours while others were schoolgirls who he threatened with a gun and raped in cemeteries in Soweto.It is believed that Rakgwale committed his first rape when he was only 15 years old. He was first arrested for rape two years later. Mpumalanga s Mabunda became a convicted serial killer at only 23 years old.At 20 in 2013, Mabunda killed four women in Mkhuhlu near Hazyview. He raped and killed two elderly women aged 78 and 81, by bludgeoning them with a pick handle and slitting their throats. He went on to rape and kill a 58-yearold nurse before burning her house.His next victim was a 16-year-old girl who he stoned to death. Before his trial started, Mabunda was sent to Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital for mental examination. It was found that he was sane and well aware of his actions when he committed the crimes.The sentence handed to him by the North Gauteng High Court in March was an effective 215 years. KwaZulu-Natal had its own rapists in Siyabonga Mokoena, 32 who was sentenced in October, four years after he terrorised the community of Howick, where women lived in fear between 2008 and 2012, when he was finally caught. He would threaten women with a knife before kidnapping and raping them.In what was the most followed trial on social media, Czech Republic national Radovan Krejcir was finally served with justice early this year. Krejcir and his co-accused police officers Desai Luphondo, Samuel Maropeng George Nthoroane, Jan Lefu Mofokeng and civilian Siboniso Miya were found guilty of kidnapping, attempted murder and drug related crimes in August.In February they were sentenced to 50 years, effectively 35 years in prison for attempted murder, kidnapping and attempted drug dealing. They kidnapped and attempted to murder Bheki Lukhele, the brother of a man who they had hired to traffic drugs to Australia for them.Thapelo Matsehi, 31, also made it to the list of 2016 s most brutal criminals. He used a choke hold to kill all his victims and before dumping their bodies, he would bathe them. Matshehi murdered four young girls in Soweto and Rustenburg. In April 2013, he kidnapped and killed 17-year-old Emerencia Kgakatsi in Rustenburg.Three months later, he kidnapped raped and murdered 15-yearold Lungile Kubheka, his neighbour in Snake Park. A few days later, his colleague Anikie Setuke disappeared from her workstation at Aquarius Platinum Mine in Rustenburg only to be found shortly after, raped and killed on the mine premises.Matsehi never used his hands when choking his victims. He is yet to be sentenced. This year also saw the return of disgraced athlete Oscar Pistorius to prison. Pistorius, who had initially been convicted of culpable homicide had already served a year of his five-year sentence, was sentenced to six years in prison in July.He is now serving a sentence for murder. Pistorius shot dead his model girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in 2013.Dudu Dube| dudud@thenewage.co.za