THE dream of representing South Africa in the 2018 Culinary Olympics has come true for four young Sun International chefs but first they have to compete at the world hospitality championships, the precursor event to be held in Dubai this month.An important item of need on the chef s competition list is the distinctive uniform needed in the kitchen, chef s whites. And since the world s most prestigious culinary battle deserves the best for South Africa s competitors, Sun International is once more a sponsor for Junior Culinary Team SA. The enterprise is the initiative adopted by The Palace and the personal passion of executive chef at The Palace, Nicholas Froneman, who is also director of the South African Chefs Association.Froneman said: This is a development project and not a local Saca or committee project, although we are doing it very much as part of Sun City Chefs Brigade and for Sun International s brand development as our food offering is a key strategic focus for us. We have also been working closely with the team manager Klaus Beckman, to invigorate the team and ensure continuity of the teams endeavours and future success. Chef Froneman said they had been fortunate to be sponsored by The Palace, Sun City and Sun International head office who are working on a two-year sponsorship deal . We will, however, be looking for more sponsors to ensure the viability for the whole team, as it is a self-funded team that relies heavily on patrons and sponsors, to stay in the game. The Palace hotel is sponsoring a full chef s uniform for the six South African team members (four of them employed at restaurants at Sun City) and their coach, Beckmann. Froneman said: All four of these young chefs Jerry Magae, Darrel Rampete, Nkululeko Hlongwane and Thatho Khumalo have been selected to compete in Dubai at the World Hospitality Championships. This Sun International sponsorship is in conjunction with culinary and hospitality apparel specialist and another sponsor of the Junior team, Maestro Chef. Since April this year, The Maslow, Sun International s urban retreat set in the heart of Africa s business hub, Sandton, has also sponsored accommodation for out-of-town team members from Durban.As a non-profit company, the SA Chefs Association relies heavily on the support of sponsors to establish and manage the Culinary Olympics team effectively.Sun International has been a longstanding patron of the SA Chefs Association and joins a list of sponsors including Bosasa, Ecolab, Sir Juice, Turn n Slice, Maestro Chef and Braeside Butchery. The young chefs in the junior team have been honing their skills and sharpening their knives as they prepare to showcase their skills against the world s best. This sponsorship will no doubt help them focus on the task at hand as they move one step closer towards gastronomic gold.The four junior chefs from Sun City who will represent Sun International at the Culinary Olympics are looking forward to the competition.Thatho Khumalo, 24. (Legends Grill Sun City Hotel) from Mogwase, Rustenburg said: I started out as a demi chef then moved to demi chef de partie at The Palace.I then moved to Soho hotel to be part of the opening team for Legends steak house as chef de partie. I am being trained in banqueting, la carte and fine dining. I started cooking at a very young age. I used to watch my mom cook, mostly at family occasions when everyone gathers and food is the most important thing. Food brings together family and friends. I like that. Being part of the competing team from Sun City since the age of 20 has been very exciting. I am also grateful for being given a chance to be part of Sun City s Culinary Olympics team. My favourite local chefs are executive chef at The Palace, Nicholas Froneman and chef Jan van der Westhuizen, the first South African chef to get a Michelin star. I also like the foul-mouthed chef, Gordon Ramsay My favourite meal is spaghetti and pilchards and my favourite ingredients are salt and pepper. I am cooking a deconstructed chicken leg quarter, chicken glaze, vegetable puree and chicken and mushroom ravioli for the Culinary Olympics. Nululeko Hlongwane, 23, from Malahleni (Witbank), Mpumalanga said: I was a service consultant at a bank in Tshwane before I decided to go into a career in food. I started cooking as an expression of my creativity, it then developed into a passion. My favourite South African chef is celebrity chef Citrum Khumalo and my favourite international chef is Nigella Lawson. Comforting mince lasagne is my best meal. My favourite ingredient is black pepper. For the Culinary Olympics I am making battered fried chicken and chicken Ballantine. Jerry Magae, 23, from Moruleng, Rustenburg said: I did a course in food preparation at Orbit TVET College as part of the Sun City Environmental Awareness Training programme. My passion for cooking began in high school when I began watching cooking shows on television. I admire South African chef Reuben Riffel and also international chefs, Gary Rhodes and Jamie Oliver. My favourite meal is corn-flaked tempura prawns with three cheese tortellini and mango and chilli salsa. I love to cook with fresh herbs. For the Culinary Olympics my focus will be on tapas, appetisers, salads and seafood. Darrel Lesane Rampete, 23, from Rustenburg said: I am happy to be learning the art of cooking on the job. I started to cook because my mother was not a good cook and since I love food I wanted to learn how to make it tasted good. I have been inspired by people who love food , my favourite chefs being sous chef at The Palace, chef Pule Mafisa, and Marco Pierre White I love macaroni and cheese. It s my favourite dish.SELLO RABOTHATA