The last time Mamelodi Sundowns left South Africa, they came back with the CAF Champions League.Upon leaving for Japan yesterday, where the Brazilians will play at the Fifa Club World Cup, hard-working midfielder Tiyani Mabunda saidSundowns were going to fight hard to come back home with the title.No African team has ever won the tournament since its inception in 2000, with TP Mazembe making the final in 2010, losing to Inter Milan, while Raja Casablanca made the final in 2013, faltering to Bayern Munich.To make matters worse, only teams coming from Europe and South America have won the tournament. Uefa teams have been victors eight times, with Conmebol sides claiming the trophy four times.While Mabunda is well aware that Sundowns will first have to beat the winner between Japanese J-League winners Kashima Antlers or NewZealand Champions League winners Auckland City.Pitso Mosimane s side will then have to negotiate their way past Colombian side and Copa Libertadores winners Atletico Nacional, before getting an opportunity to possibly meet Spanish giants and European champions Real Madrid. Mabunda, who was one of Sundowns consistent performers on the way to winning the CAF Champions League, said the Tshwane side want to be in the same bracket as Mazembe and Raja, or better yet, go a step further. It is not how we are as Sundowns, where we go to a tournament to add numbers. There is always that belief that we can win. Which is why we leave here hungry and ready to fight to make the final, Mabunda said. It will not be easy. This is why we want to first make the final and follow in the steps of teams like TP Mazembe. They have done really well there and we also want to do what they did. With that said, everyone has an equal chance and we believe if we work hard, we can go a step further than Mazembe. It is very possible. Sundowns qualified for the Club World Cup by beating Egyptian side Zamalek 3-1 in a two-legged final in October.Even though the Brazilians had announced that they will take all their players to travel with the team that has been registered to play at the tournament, Flavio Bento and Rheece Evans did not make the trip.MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za