Contrary to Kaizer Chiefs supporters calls for coach Steve Komphela s head, the club s players have come out in full support of the beleaguered coach despite the side s poor run. Komphela is under fire at Chiefs, with most fans making it clear that they want the club to dismiss him. Fans have thrown various objects at Komphela following draws against SuperSport United, Cape Town City and their recent defeat to Chippa United.The 49-year-old coach has described these incidents as difficult times in his coaching career. Players, though, have spoken out in support of the coach and yesterday appealed to their many supporters to exercise more patience. Midfielder Siphiwe Tshabalala knows the only way to turn around the situation is by ensuring positive results in their last three matches of the year, which are against Bloemfontein Celtic, Polokwane City and Golden Arrows. It s not a nice situation to be in for the team, players and, most importantly for the coach, but we are fully behind him, Tshabalala said. We support him and the only way to show that we believe in him and that we want him to stay and succeed is through gaining the right results. Having witnessed supporters throwing objects at the coach, Tshabalala said these incidents had also affected the team mentally and he pleaded with the fans to support the team through these difficult times. It definitely gets to us, it s not a nice situation to witness because he s not only a coach, but he s a father, husband, brother and a good human being. It s not nice to see what has been happening in recent weeks but we as a team can only change that, like I ve said, through good performances and positive results. Meanwhile, Komphela said it has not been easy for him but he knows that he needs to soldier on. As a coach, you need to bring the right energy not only to the players but to the staff and everybody, Komphela said. It has been very difficult but we are coping. I m doing my job honestly. The most important is the next three games, everything is about winning these. Winning on Wednesday against Bloemfontein Celtic, against Polokwane City and the last match against Golden Arrows and that will change things. Chiefs host Celtic at FNB Stadium tomorrow and will be desperate for a victory to ease the pressure on the club from its own fans.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza