Provincial ANC deputy chairperson Thabo Manyoni has called on South Africans, especially members of his party, to identify the right leaders with the right kind of character, education and background.He said leaders needed to understand what was at stake, where South Africa had been and where it needed to go. For the second time in our history, we need to face the disturbing fact that South Africa needs to liberate itself anew, Manyoni said.Manyoni was giving a public lecture on the life and times of Peter Swartz in Bloemfontein on Sunday. Swartz was exiled during apartheid.Manyoni said Swartz s story was synonymous with the painful and often tragic history of South Africa.He said banishment and exile were tools used by the apartheid system to condemn its opponents to arid and desolate places for unlimited periods.People opposed to the system were plucked from their families and communities. They were strangers in strange areas who could not speak the local language and often had little in common with the locals and even less in common with those under whose surveillance they fell, Manyoni said. Our history is a history littered with pain, loss, suffering, torture, maiming, abuse, oppression, murder, banishment and all evil deeds associated with a murderous state, intent on enforcing and maintaining racial supremacy. He said those who were banished were not only victims but also indomitable, courageous, tenacious, resilient and capable of enduring considerable hardship. Like so much of South Africa s recent brutal history, we shall probably never know exactly how many people were banished and what happened to all of them, Manyoni said.It was against this background that Peter Swartz s life and times had to be understood, Manyoni said. We are beneficiaries of the sacrifices of Peter Swartz and many others who went to foreign lands for us to be able to say: Free at last . We cannot afford to disappoint. Manyoni said post-apartheid South Africa was plagued by a homegrown enemy of political ineptitude, mediocrity, sub-standards, indiscipline, ethnic bigotry and corruption of the ruling class in collaboration with business. Added to this was a factionalised ANC Manyoni, who is also a member of Parliament, said the leagues of the ANC not only formed factions but were also puppetarised . There is no autonomy of thinking or action, he said. The tripartite alliance partners are successfully marginalised, operating on the periphery and are sometimes heard and seen as irrelevant to giving direction to South Africa s future growth. Manyoni said this state of affairs was harrowing considering the sacrifices made by people such as Peter Swartz.kamogelos@thenewage.co.za