The unity of the ad hoc committee hearings into the SABC board s fitness to run the broadcaster came under strain yesterday when it was disclosed that it had favoured the ANC during the local government elections of August.In its presentation to the committee, Media Monitoring Africa said between June and August, Morning Live had given the ANC twice as much coverage it afforded the DA, and five times more than that given to the EFF.A total of 22% of items on this programme was biased, the report said.On SABC2, in Xitsonga/Tshivenda news programmes, it was established that for every three stories broadcast during the 5.30pm bulletin, at least one of them was biased.In total, 84% of biased stories in the bulletins favoured the ANC.The monitoring organisation said that it had been revealed for the first time in our democratic history that the SABC had, at least on three programmes, clearly failed in its basic duty of providing balanced and fair reporting .This conduct, said the monitoring body, also served to undermine the mandate given to the SABC by the Independent Communication Authority of South Africa.To the chagrin of ANC MPs, opposition parties latched on the results of the Media Monitoring Africa s research. The elections coverage had been skewed in favour of bigger parties. I agree with you. It s something we have to look at. It s a major challenge we have to look at. To a large extent, the coverage by the radio channels had been fair, UDM s Nqabayomzi Kwankwa said.As the ANC got hot under the collar, the DA s Phumzile van Damme added: I do not think it s the duty of the committee to regulate feelings. It s quite clear the SABC gave ANC more coverage. Let s not pretend it s not happening. All this was too much for the ANC s Makhosi Khoza who wanted to know from the organisation s William Bird if he had been objective in his research. The reality in South Africa is the ANC is the ruling party and therefore would tend to enjoy more media coverage. That s how the nature of news is, she said.Khoza also drew a line between the ANC and former SABC chief operations officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng. When Motsoeneng started doing these things, the ANC came out in the open to challenge him. Motsoeneng is on record as saying he doesn t care about the ANC. You are actually suggesting Motsoeneng has an ideological vetting behind him . Yes, he might have a particular minister supporting him, but he does not have the support of the party, she said.Yesterday s hearings started with a dramatic announcement that threats were made against the lives of some of the journalists known as the SABC8, a group who refused to follow an SABC- imposed censorship decision about not airing violent protests.Kwankwa told the committee he had seen a copy of a threat made to one of the journalists who had testified this week.The message read: Traitors, protecting your white friends in Parliament who started this, telling lies about your comrades. You are warned &#8230; watch the blood flow. Members of the committee condemned the message.Chairperson Vincent Smith assured witnesses that Parliament would make them feel safe when they testify. The committee would take up the matter with the relevant authorities. When members of society are invited to give evidence by a parliamentary committee and are intimidated, that is an assault on Parliament. DENNIS CRUYWAGENvincentc@thenewage.co.za