The Mbekweni Rugby Stadium, with its characteristic white goalposts, is one of the most prominent landmarks in the Paarl township.The stadium has a gravel athletics track, with white lime used to demarcate the running lanes evidence that a meet was held here recently.A warm wind blows but it isn t time to run. It s time for adulation, hero worship, nostalgia and thanking those who fanned the flames of dreams of a life beyond Mbekweni.This world, amid the Cape Winelands, is not the paradise that it seems to be while driving through it. Alcohol abuse, violent relationships and prison stints define it.Luvo Manyonga was one of the lucky ones who escaped it and he has returned to inspire the locals to show them that there s another life outside the confines of Mbekweni. Looking over the field where he used to dream, he takes a trip down memory lane. It all began here, the Mbekweni rugby sports ground. It was just for keeping yourself fit. Just natural. It all began here. We were doing some small drills, running after each other, not knowing where we were going. We were just doing it for the love of sport but we ended up receiving a medal at the Olympics, he said.In August, Manyonga came back home with an Olympic silver medal. All he needed was a centimetre to be remembered as the world s best. But American Jeff Henderson cleared a distance of 8.38m in his final leap to beat the 25 year old by a whisker.Disappointing as that second place might have been, it was a personal victory for Manyonga.He had risen above the circumstances of growing up in a township where drug lords, shebeens and crime wait with hungry eyes for the next victims, unwary souls ready to be trapped in a nihilistic journey of self-destruction. Manyonga wanted to be a triple jumper but the local stadium did not have a sand pit where he could practice the track and field discipline. It was at Coetzenberg, an athletics stadium at Stellenbosch University associated with world records and tales of great athletics meetings, where Manyonga began jumping. I was selected for the Boland Central at interschools, so that s when I decided I must switch to long jump. Triple jump takes too much effort. Long jump is just one jump. Personal accessories, a wide welcoming smile and an easygoing nature all point to a cool young man. The earrings are just a thing. Just a classy thing. It looks cool, you know, he said. We re very proud of getting a person like Luvo, Manyonga s life orientation and history teacher, Dolly Peter, said on the first day of final exams at the local Desmond Tutu High School. It was a surprise because we didn t expect he would rise up to the level where he is today. It just brought hope to our community. We are a no-fee school and we don t have money set aside for sport. Sometimes we have to take from our pockets to provide for the pupils. The day we were at Coetzenburg, Luvo didn t have a lunch. I had to take my own lunch as an official to provide lunch for him, she said.Peter said the school would use life orientation classes to stimulate the interests of pupils. We told them that we were going to have a sport day and that it was for marks, she said. When it s for marks they throw themselves about, you know. The following year the school hosted the traditional athletics games. We wanted a strong team and everyone had to participate. That is where I discovered Luvo. I saw that this one is very good . From that moment, the road to Rio had begun.Peter laughed when she recalled that Manyonga was also a good shooter in netball, a game traditionally associated with girls. I remember one day we were playing netball. It was a mixture of girls and boys. Luvo was playing as a shooter. Then the other side complained: No, Luvo cannot be a shooter because Luvo is very tall. He is just taking all those balls . At Manyonga s home, his dog Quincy is the first to greet him. Upon entering the house, one is greeted by a huge picture of Manyonga landing perfectly during a long jump. The household is proud of its son.His mother Joyce says his had been a difficult birth. All three of my children were Caesarian births. They were big children.The doctor told me he had to cut me or else they could kill me. Before greatness, Manyonga was going down a completely different road, a course to nowhere dictated by the drug tik.His mother always prayed for her youngest child but says that she never doubted that he would be successful in Rio. That night my husband, John, our two other children and I were watching the event on TV, she said. I felt good. When he won his medal I was very happy. Outside, cars were hooting, people were celebrating in the street. Part of that outpouring of joy was in celebration of a winner, another was to pay tribute to a lionhearted man who had beaten addiction. Suspended for 18 months in 2012 for failing a drug test, Luvo did not let himself become another statistic endemic to many young sportsmen and women. Luvo had a second chance and he took it, his childhood friend, Xolisile Tshabalala, says bristling with admiration.Although Tshabalala had seen his friend enter the pits of tik addiction he also saw him beat a demon to the ground.Sitting under a tree at the grounds of Desmond Tutu High, he said he had berated Manyonga about not including him on the list of people who had to be thanked on the big night of winning the medal. He dedicated his medal to his five-year-old son Lindokuhle. That s alright. I said: The next time he must include me , Tshabalala said.