&nbsp;The Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Commission has stepped up its fight against company fronting and received 134 complaints in its first five months.The commission, which has to investigate fronting and bring the culprits to account, was established in April. At the end of September, the commission was already investigating 134 complaints.Of these 112 complaints related to allegations of fronting while 22 had to do with allegations of improper verification processes such as presentation of fraudulent certificates.BEE commissioner Zodwa Ntuli said they were happy with the progress the commission was making. People are beginning to come to file complaints. Others don t file complaints immediately, but they come for meetings to see if what the suspect to be fronting is something they should actually bring to us. We are excited that people are beginning to know what could be said to be fronting, then they become conscious in their own spaces, Ntuli said. She believes the progress is as a result of the awareness about the legislation.Ntuli said once investigations were over, those found to be fronting would be fined heavily. The company can be fined about 10% of its turnover.The directors or managers involved could also be prosecuted criminally and go to jail for up to 10 years, but that depends on the severity of the issue. The company might also be excluded from doing business with the government for a period of 10 years. If there are contracts they have with government and state entities, they could be cancelled. In cases where there is a licence, it can be withdrawn if the company is found guilty, Ntuli said.Progressive Professionals Forum president Jimmy Manyi said fronting had been criminalised and the commission needed to ensure the law was effectively implemented. Whoever is found fronting, it s a 10-year jail sentence and the law must take its course.The commission must respond to that and ensure the law takes its course and people are sent to jail, Manyi said. Ntuli said they were almost done with the investigations and would soon take action in line with their findings.She said transport, mining and construction sectors were the most affected by fronting.Mthokozisi Dube|mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za