The large-scale theft of antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) in the Free State is linked to the needs of illegal miners in Welkom and other areas.ARVs are often stolen from hospitals and taken underground. Many of the miners are believed to be HIV-positive and in dire need of the drug.Its other attraction is the illegal use in the drug trade, where it is mixed with dagga to manufacture nyaope.Because of this, the life saving medicine for HIV-positive people is often at the centre of medicine theft which is now receiving attention from the authorities.The health department believes a syndicate could be operating in the Welkom area, where ARVs intended for the illegal miners, are confiscated.Although the theft of medicine in Free State hospitals has not been widely reported, it is an offence the provincial health department says it wants to nip in the bud.In the last month, two cases of medicine theft was reported to the police. A hospital staffer was among those arrested after being found with large amounts of medicine.A pharmacy assistant from the Thabong clinic in Welkom, was also arrested after 60 containers of ARVs, known as Artroisa, were found at his home.The extent of any possible network and financial implications of this drug bust was part of the deeper joint investigation that is under way by police and the department.In November, police arrested two men who were found in possession of stolen ARVs, bottles of cough mixture, painkiller tablets, ointments and other medicines.The medication was believed to be for the illegal miners who are working underground.The department said even though these are only know of a few cases, it cannot rule out the possibility of others being involved in the crime of stealing medicines. We are not therefore discounting the possibility that there could be people who are negatively innovative and defraud the system. We are glad there are whistleblowers who have enabled us to arrest the perpetrators, departmental spokesperson Mondli Mvambi said.Mvambi said an audit letter was handed over to the official on November 14 giving them the opportunity to state why they should not be suspended. A precautionary suspension was thereafter effected to allow internal investigations to unfold without interference. The investigation is now officially launched. We trust the successful prosecution and conviction will deter officials from engaging in malicious acts of theft, he said.Mvambi said they were not aware of any other incidents related to medicine theft. We are not aware of any other acts of theft as the medication in the department has been accounted for. We are open, of course, to any information that may be brought forward by any whistleblower, if there are any unknown or suspicious activities, he said.Medicine is strictly controlled by a dispensing system from the medical depot with a stock visibility solution to track medicine shortages. We are also implementing a system that enables us to dispense the correct medicine to the correct patient without causing long queues in our clinics and hospitals. We call this the decanting and implementation of central chronic medicine dispensing and distribution programme, Mvambi said.kamogelos@thenewage.co.za