The Independent Examinations Board (IEB) matric pass rate has not only remained high but improved from 98.3% to 98.67% from last year, with just 158 pupils failing.The IEB results of more than 11 000 matriculants were released at midnight yesterday.IEB CEO Anne Oberholzer said candidates who passed had done well enough to qualify for tertiary study at one of three levels. Some 87.61% of the cohort achieved entry to degree study, compared to 85.26% in 2015; 9.83% qualified for entry to diploma study, compared to 11.66% in 2015; 1.23% achieved entry for study at the higher certificate level, compared to 1.37% in 2015, she said.Brandon Gray, one of the top performers, achieved distinctions in all his subjects including Afrikaans, English, geography, life sciences, mathematics, physical sciences and advanced programme mathematics.Gray was at Dainfern College. His school achieved a 100% pass rate for the 16th consecutive year. I had two hours of swimming every day, I was also a deputy head boy, Gray, who plans to study in the US said. All I can say to the matric class of 2017 is to develop organisational skills. Sango Socikwa from St John s College achieved an average mark of 89.26% for all his subjects.Socikwa, who was a deputy head prefect, is not only a bookworm. He is an all-rounder who plays rugby, soccer and music, and is interested in philosophy.He hopes to study either actuarial science or industrial engineering at the University of Cape Town. One day I hope to create my own company that will have a meaningful impact in South Africa and Africa as a whole, encouraging development in states full of potential, which will help uplift the poor, he said.Other schools that achieved 100% passes include Crawford College Sandton, Trinityhouse High in Randpark Ridge, Crawford College Lonehill, Crawford College Pretoria, Maragon Olympus, Maragon Ruimsig , Crawford College North Coast in KwaZulu-natal and Southdowns College, which has achieved a 100% pass rate since 2006.Oberholzer said monitoring board Umalusi had assessed all aspects of the 2016 examination process and declared the results fair and valid. We commend the Department of Basic Education for running a successful and credible examination process, Umalusi chairperson Prof John Volmink said. Accordingly, we hereby approve the release of the results of the National Senior Certificate. Although there is an increase in the number of progressed pupils who passed compared to last year, Basic Education spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga was upbeat about an overall improvement from last year s 70.7% pass rate, when the results of more than 600 000 public school matric candidates are released next week. Given the efforts put in by provinces, districts, minister, deputy minister, director general, and the Department of Basic Education officials to check the state of readiness of each and every province and track pupils performances throughout the year, we expect a slight improvement in 2016 from the 2014 and 2015 results, he said.Batandwa Malingo