Soweto has since 1994 gone from an apartheid relic to a vibrant township capable of supporting a diverse economic mix.Every day hawkers trading on the side of the road operate next to world class shopping malls, while small to medium enterprises enjoy a symbiotic relationship with more established commercial entities.The township s intimate ties to South Africa s history and the anti-apartheid movement in particular have acted as a catalyst to a thriving tourism sector which has impacted the lives of hundreds of people.Vilakazi Street in Orlando West stands out as one of the premier destinations of the famed township. It s home to two Nobel Peace Prize laureates Nelson Mandela and Desmond Tutu.Gauteng Tourism Authority (GTA) spokesperson Barba Gaoganediwe said Soweto served as a benchmark for other townships on how to commercialise their unique features to encourage tourism. The tourism sector in Soweto has grown and matured over the years and Soweto s residents have also embraced tourism and recognise the economic benefits it has brought to their communities, Gaoganediwe said.He said robbery was rare in the area as people understood the economic impact tourism had made to local communities. People come to experience the authentic Soweto vibe in Vilakazi. The food, the people, the history around the place and many restaurants, bed and breakfasts and guided tours have taken advantage of the influx of tourists and are making good money. Increased productivity and development in a community will often translate to an increase in the price of property and Soweto is no different in this regard, said real estate agent Kena Kekana.Kekana said Orlando West was increasingly popular among those looking for a home in Soweto. However, that desire needs to be matched by relatively deep pockets. The price of homes particularly around Vilakazi Street are expensive because of the links to Mandela s name, Kekana said. The prices are at times ridiculous because there is a lot of tourist activity in the area. She recently sold a home in Orlando West a stone s throw from the Hector Peterson Memorial for R550000. That house was ordinary. Nothing special was done to it, it was a simple house. Kekana said there was a constant demand from people regularly calling her, wanting to know if she had anything available in the area. On Vilakazi Street in particular nobody is selling. Everyone is holding on to their property. At this stage it looks like if anyone is going to sell, it would be for R1m upwards (for a two-bedroomed house), Kekana said.Other factors such as proximity to transport infrastructure such as the Rea Vaya bus system also influences buyers decision to live in Soweto.One of the landmark developments which have added to the townships economic mix is the 8000m multi-brand car sales facility known as Maponya Motor City in Orlando East.Spearheaded by veteran entrepreneur Richard Maponya, the facility is home to a Volkswagen and Toyota dealership, which have the capacity to sell more than 30 new vehicles and 25 used vehicles each month.The entire development is worth more than R600m and on completion will comprise filling stations and car fitment centres, leading to 500 potential employment opportunities.Maponya s storied history of entrepreneurship and a commitment to the development of Soweto took a giant leap in 2007 when the landmark Maponya Mall opened its doors. Consumers no longer have to travel long distances to purchase everyday essentials.Some of the country s largest retailers such as Shoprite, Pick Pay and Woolworths operate in Soweto.Gauteng s department of economic development has attempted to overcome these challenges by directly investing in the township economy. Since the implementation of the township economy revitalisation strategy, the provincial government has spent R1.8bn procuring goods and services from township enterprises, department spokesperson Siphiwe Hlope said.An amount of R159m has been allocated towards the township economy revitalisation strategy by the department for the financial year. A further R159m is set aside over the next three years to upgrade nine centres into proper industrial parks or business hubs. Orlando Industrial Park is one of the beneficiaries.The overall gentrification of Soweto stands as a model which many hope can be replicated in other townships across the country in order to unleash economic strength which resides in these areas.SIPHIWE MCHUNUnews@thenewage.co.za