Drought-stricken uMkhanyakude municipality has promised the residents that the days of water shortages, long queues at water points and hours spent trying to find water in the Jozini area will soon be gone.Spokesperson Mduduzi Dlamini said one of the municipality s water schemes to source water from the Jozini Dam has entered its completion stage. We are waiting for the contractor to hand over the scheme to uMkhanyakude and we have requested the Department of Water Affairs to assist the municipality with funding for reticulation so that everyone gets water from this dam, Dlamini said.He said the water scheme will produce at least 40 megalitres of water for residents of Jozini, Ingwavuma, Mbazwana and some parts of Umhlabuyalingana.For several years, Jozini has been battling with an insufficient water supply in spite of the fact that Jozini Dam is in the area. To help alleviate the problem, in 2011 the district purchased water pipes to draw water from the dam.But last year the water pipes were reportedly found dumped on the roadside.However, Dlamini denied this, saying it was not true. The pipes were not dumped, however the municipality requested a safe land from izinduna (chiefs) to keep the pipes. The municipality fenced the area. Those pipes are being used. Dlamini said the municipality had no water master plan until the ANC took control of the district in 2011. Until then the municipality did not have any mega water projects and merely providing water through water tankers and boreholes. In 2011 when the new council (ANC) took over from the previous regime (IFP), it found money that was left unused by the previous council of around R160m. The municipality had no choice but to use the money wisely by procuring pipes which are of great assistance to our communities. But IFP provincial secretary Velenkosini Hlabisa denied that the IFP left office without initiating a long-term water project. All the projects that were initiated by the IFP have been on a standstill since the ANC took over. There was one which was supposed to get water from the dam to the people in 2012 but it didn t happen. The ANC should not attribute its failure to produce water to the IFP. It is not a secret that they misuse funds. They are known for embezzling money, he said.Lesley Tshamanoprovinces@thenewage.co.za