It is almost that time of the year when the East Rand gets to celebrate one of its own in DJ Shimza.The revered spinner leads the way ahead of his eighth edition of DJ Shimza One Man Show (OMS).The dance music spectacle and charity event will set Mehlareng Stadium in Tembisa on fire on Christmas Day as has been the norm in the past five years. The show has over the years brought entertainment and put smiles on children s faces through the number of charities the show supports.Speaking to The New Age recently, the man born Ashley Raphala popularly referred to as DJ Shimza has this year roped in some of the biggest South African artists in a bid to deliver quality performances to paying fans who have followed this event since inception. As much as I support upcoming DJs unfortunately the OMS is not the ideal platform for them to showcase their skills. I once tried it, but it turned out to be more like a deejaying contest. Upcoming DJs, however, have an opportunity to play during my other show the Annual Easter Festival. This is because I want the fans to get their money s worth at the OMS, Shimza said.The Tembisa-born DJ said he was excited about the sixth annual show as it had grown in leaps and bounds over the years, allowing the Shimza brand to grow as well with his chart-topping album, Shimuzic gives his fans a bevy, of dance classics such as African Woman, Friends with Benefits, Akulalwa and Nzima among others. Shimza, 27, whose music and talent is as great as his altruistic heart has taken OMS to new heights, uplifting and giving back to his Tembisa community.The show has looked after hundreds of disadvantaged children, paying for their school uniforms, and taking the pressure off struggling caregivers. The concept arose out of concern for the numerous homes in Tembisa housing orphaned and vulnerable children struggling to get sustained support from the government or private sector, he said. Using his crowd-pulling and artist attraction abilities, then 20-year-old DJ Shimza hosted the first show at Caprivi Music Lounge in Tembisa hosting the popular Rhythmic Elements with himself as the only house music DJ, hence the title One Man Show. The funds raised were used for the children s school uniforms or operational costs of the orphanage. This year we are looking to host more than 1000 children, he said.Shimza promised an electric show with music from his debut album, featuring Dr Malinga among other artists. The Metro FM DJ has proven to be more than just a club DJ and with a string of accomplishments under his belt, he continues to be one of the most grounded entertainers.Passionate about his work and serving his community, it is no surprise that the event has grown audiences from 800 in 2009 to more than 12000 at the festival in 2015.The show has previously hosted the likes of Boom Shaka, Bucie, Mpumi, Black Motion, Cassper Nyovest, DJ Sbu, Major League and AKA and this year s instalment promises nothing less than the hottest talent in Mzansi.NONTOKOZO GXUMISA