Post Office workers in the Free State are complaining about poor and unbearable working conditions as they work without proper resources such as protective clothes and bicycles. When you see a postman, you expect him to be on a bicycle and not walking with a bag. The bags are affecting our lower backs and we are forever complaining, one disgruntled worker who did not want to be identified said. When you are sick and don t have medical aid, you have go to a government hospital. The following day you come back and the very same bag is on your shoulder again. If you tell your supervisor he says that you are here for work and you can t do anything about it. When you have a puncture at work, you are supposed to take money out of your own pocket to phone the office. We don t have knowledge about our contracts because even though you want to go to the CCMA to ask or lay a charge you can t go there because you don t have proof that you have signed a contract, another worker said.Trade union federation Cosatu said it would continue to engage with the postal service to try to find a solution to the problems Those who work in the office are somehow better off but those who have to deliver mail face continuous challenges. Firstly, despite the weather, the Post Office has not been able to provide them with a uniform, the same applies to the office workers, Cosatu provincial secretary Monyatso Mahlatsi said. There s no uniform and no protective clothing like lumber jackets or all-weather pullovers. Workers have to use bicycles to deliver the mail and unfortunately, because of its problems, the Post Office has not been able to pay its service providers. The Post Office said it was aware of the challenges. We are providing uniforms to people, but not all uniforms have been received yet. The bicycles are also a concern to a certain level but management is addressing it, mail operations manager Ali Nemarumane said.Provinces affected in the central region include the Free State, the Northern Cape and parts of the North West. SABC