The narrowing of economic opportunities for black South Africans continues unabated, ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte says.Addressing a community meeting in Chatsworth, Durban, on Tuesday, Duarte lamented the difficulties for black entrepreneurs to climb up the ladder of economic development in an economic system that is controlled by a few individuals. So yes we have the vote, we have something we call economic parity between men and women but we do not own the economy of South Africa. The economy is still owned by a small number of South Africans who are syndicated throughout the country in every province, Duarte said.She said that many entrepreneurs encountered difficulty in breaking ground in the private sector thus many now pinned their hopes on the state to succeed in business. When we talk about accessing tenders, you only look at the state as an entry point, we re not able, as black South Africans to find the space to open the economy in such a manner that the state will be an option of last resort.Duarte s comments come at a time when the debate on economic transformation in the country is increasingly gaining momentum following the proposal of a R3500 national minimum wage.Duarte, making reference to the relationship between economic growth and corruption, said the practice of accessing business opportunities through bribery was untenable. We cannot continue along a trajectory where corruption becomes the only strong entry point for an entrepreneur, the only way you can make it in business is if you corrupt a civil servant, she said.She said however, while it would be an arduous undertaking, black entrepreneurs should also look beyond SA s borders for greener pastures. I keep hearing about how much opportunity there is for South Africans on the African continent. That is true but the will we have to move ourselves out of comfort zones is relatively low. Business on the African continent is not for the meek, it is not for the mild hearted thin-skinned individual. Duarte, making reference to the domestic economy, said there were many barriers to entry for black-owned businesses. Many entrepreneurs will find it extremely hard to get a state-owned financial institution to support you because your project isn t large enough. Our developmental financial institutions are afraid of taking risks, they are risk averse. They are going to put money into things that will pay back the loan in a shorter period of time instead of taking the risk for a long-term repayment with smaller interest rates. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za