Free State Agric provides safety tips for festive seasonFarm workers and dwellers have been urged to note suspicious persons and vehicles that appear to travel around without reason and report them. Farmers body Free State Agric said farm workers should be especially alert for strangers at collection points in the morning or afternoon or people hanging around the farm entrance.all workers and dwellers on farms and create profiles and integrity inspections, such as check IDs, criminal records and not hire illegal immigrants or do business with them. These are just some of the tips that have been given to farmers and farm workers to keep safe as crime patterns escalate in the festive season.It advised that anyone who lives on a farm should not enter the house immediately when they arrive home. Inspect the house by walking around the outside to ensure no forced entrance is visible.If you have pets, check their whereabouts and behaviour, Free State Agric said. The organisation also called on farmers and the local police to launch a joint operation within the framework of the Rural Safety Plan to address safety and crime in rural communities.It said the plan provides for structures and systems that must be functional between farmers on local, cluster (area) and provincial level to ensure and improve cooperation.The Free State Agric safety desk and its law and order committee has also proposed that all farmers join a safety network, whether they are members of organised agriculture or not. This will enable them to proactively look after their safety and assist to prevent crimes on agriculture land. Farmers should further evaluate their safety networks critically according to the safety check list, the organisation said. Safety tips: Join safety structures that have been established between the local SAPS, farmers and other role players in your area. Regularly attend monthly meetings, take part in white-blue light operations in terms of farm attacks and be in regular contact with safety coordinators from both the SAPS and organised agriculture in your area. Be involved in your local farm watch safety structure. Regularly test radio communication with your safety network/coordinator and neighbours.-KAMOGELO SEEKOEI