After a year of their cry falling on deaf ears, farm workers at Umbhaba Estates are seeking intervention from the presidency.A 33-year-old suspended farmer, Dumisani Madonsela, said the workers sought intervention from the presidency because the provincial department of labour had failed to help them. We now believe that the only person who can help us in this situation is the president himself and also the president of Cosatu since all the parties that we asked to intervene have failed us, he said.Madonsela said their employer had told them that no one would be able to help them no matter who they ran to. We are told that no one is going to help us in this country because what we do is not important but just any other job, he said. Farm workers, he said, were not taken seriously, not even by the government . More than 300 workers have been out of work since November last year. The employer is denying us an opportunity to be part of any union or having our own on the farm, Madonsela.The farm workers have embarked on a strike for more than a year now but their grievances have not been answered. They demand a salary hike and the employer s recognition of the Food and Allied Workers Union (Fawu). Umbhaba Estates farms organic bananas and operates out of Hazyview, Hectorspruit and Kiepersol. The striking farmers are at the company s Hectorspruit operation.The South African Constitution and labour laws provide for freedom of association and allow workers to join and form unions. This right is regulated by the Labour Relations Act. An employer is not allowed to interfere in a trade union s affairs and may deduct union dues from the wages of the members only after their written consent. Discriminatory behaviour is prohibited for the employer on the basis of union affiliation or participation in union activities, the act says. Cosatu provincial secretary Thabo Mokoena said the union was doing all it could to assist the suspended workers. We are doing everything in our power to make sure that these people eat, he said. Now that it is the festive season, we will be assisting them with food parcels and some funds so that they can provide for their families. The federation had asked for legal intervention and was awaiting judgment. We are waiting for legal proceedings to take the matter forward, Mokoena said. The court case might be postponed for the next three months. Thus far we don t know when the judgment will take place. But Madonsela said: The last time we received food parcels from the body was two months ago and now that it s the festive season we hope to get more. The farm workers said: Now that it s the festive season we are worried about what to tell our children because they always want clothes for the festive season and we are really struggling. Madonsela said there were almost 2 000 farm workers from Umbhaba Estates who were joining the movement to demand the freedom to join a union. The employer, Shane Plath, could not be reached for comment.CHARLOTE HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.za