South Africans are among the most indebted in the world, according to the Reserve Bank and the National Credit Regulator. Khanyi Nzukuma, CEO of Metropolitan Retail, said 11 million South Africans can be categorised as overindebted , 10.5 million having impaired credit records and 3.79 million accounts in arrears for three or more months.The average debt per credit active South African is R69750, so it s no wonder that the latest MMI Consumer Financial Vulnerability Index places the nation in the very exposed category in terms of finances. She says the right kind of debt, used correctly, remains one of the great economic liberators for individuals and communities.It was the access to the formal lending sector that most black South Africans gained for the first time in the 1990s which triggered the explosive growth in the middle class and lifted living standards across the nation. We need to remember that good debt still has a role to play in every income earner s life because it has the potential to generate wealth and financial wellness, Nzukuma said. In short, good debt involves borrowing money to build assets or to enhance income.It takes you forward in life. It should be affordable, from a reputable provider and part of a proper financial plan constructed with the help of a qualified adviser. An investment in property is probably the surest way to secure an asset base for your family and to move up the economic ladder. Property is not a guaranteed investment, and should be approached with care, but since 2009, properties under R600000 have increased in value by at least 33%, which outpaces interest on savings, salary increases and most business profit curves. Property can also be a generator of rental income.Even in the challenging climate for graduates, statistics show at least a 20% higher chance of being employed with a tertiary qualification. So a measured amount of debt to fund good secondary and relevant tertiary education has real merit. Investing in a good value, appropriate car or bakkie can save on commuting costs and might make better jobs more accessible.The vehicle can also become an income earner in its own right. As for getting into business: even the smallest enterprises involve purchasing some assets or stock and demand a ready cash flow and almost every successful business person has used loans of some kind to get going or to get growing to the next level. A detailed business plan, built in consultation with experienced people, is essential before taking on loans.The bad kind of debt, to be avoided completely, is anything unaffordable or carrying punitive interest rates. It is also inadvisable to use debt to fund day-to-day survival needs like food, rent and clothing.It is far better to lower your expenses than to raise your debt burden without a commensurate improvement in income. It s best to resist the temptation to use debt to indulge a want (expensive cellphones, top-of-the-range cars and home electronics) rather than a genuine need .-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za 