Floods triggered by heavy rains and a river bursting its banks have killed at least 50 people and left thousands more homeless in the southwest of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), a provincial governor said yesterday.Torrential rains caused the Kalamu River, which flows through the city of Boma into the River Congo, to overflow for two hours before the waters receded, washing some of the victims across the border into Angola. The waters left parts of the city, the DRC s sole Atlantic port, covered in up to a metre of mud and a search was under way to dig out more bodies that may be buried. The rains on the night of Monday to Tuesday in Boma have caused at least 50 deaths, Jacques Mbadu, governor of Kongo Central province said. We buried 31 bodies on Wednesday and we expect to get about 20 more bodies back today that ended up across the border in Angola, he said.Mbadu said the waters hit a peak of 2m above their usual level, destroying at least 500 homes and leaving several thousand people homeless. Boma, which lies near the mouth of the River Congo around 470km southwest of Kinshasa, is home to between 150000 and 200000 people. This is a cyclical phenomenon, which happens every 10 years. It last happened in January last year but with climate change it s now happened in December 2016, Mbadu said.Locals said that two of the city s three districts were still covered in mud up to a metre deep in some places and described tragic scenes as the waters rushed dramatically into their houses. I lost my two children, carried off by the waters, which rose up to three metres like a tsunami. I could only watch them as they were washed away, Faustin Lutete, a government employee, said.Fisherman Jean-Marie Kola said he just had time to run far away, as our house was showing signs of fragility. It collapsed later. Provincial governor Mbadu said the authorities were encouraging those left homeless by the floods to seek shelter with relatives, rather than putting them in reception centres.He said he had been working with a Dutch company to reduce the risk of the Kalumu flooding.Congolese towns and cities are typically built in a haphazard fashion with government services to deal with natural disasters practically non-existent.Floods in Kinshasa in December last year left more than 30 people dead and 20000 families homeless, most in the capital s slums, where residents were left to battle with their bare hands through noxious mud, slime and faecal matter.Kinshasa