Stockvel members have been warned to be careful with their hardearned cash after a 62-year-old man from Meloding in Virginia was robbed of R98000 this week. Police said the man was robbed on Monday morning at Eureka Park after returning from the bank in Welkom with the money for the stokvel.It is further said that the victim parked his car outside his house and when he got out of his vehicle, two men wearing balaclavas with pistols approached him. Police spokesperson Capt Malebo Khosana said one man put a firearm against the complainant s head and demanded the man give him the money. The complainant cannot identify the suspects. The scene was visited and no witnesses could identify the suspects, Khosana said. Thabong cluster office under the command of Maj-Gen Lerato Molale, said she was concerned about the safety of members of societies or stokvels. We have incidents of this nature reported in our communities during the festive season, Molale said. We therefore urge society members to arrange with banks to handle deposits of members money when it is time to share their savings. Any person with information that can help to the arrest of the suspects should contact Meloding police on 057 215 1089. Meanwhile, luck has run out for three murder suspects who were arrested in Kroonstad on Tuesday.The three Lesotho nationals, aged 27, 32 and 33, were charged with two counts of murder and business robbery which were committed in the North West province.The suspects arrest came after police in Kroonstad got a tip-off that the trio were on the run, after they allegedly shot and killed two Ethiopian nationals aged 27 and 31 in Modderkuil village near Moruleng, in the policing area of Mogwase last Monday.They allegedly took items from their shop then fled the area until they were arrested on Tuesday in Bloemfontein after their vehicle details were circulated and tracked. They appeared in the Mogwase Magistrate s Court yesterday. The outcome of the court appearance was not available at the time of going to press.-KAMOGELO SEEKOEI