Vendors in Tshwane are up in arms against the new administration of mayor Solly Msimanga.Barekisi Ba Tshwane management, an informal trade organisation, yesterday marched to the Tshwane market in Vom Hagen Street, Marabastad.Chairperson of the forum, Shoes Maloka, said the main issue of the march was to address programmes which they had agreed on with the previous leadership, as they had 104 students who were attending tertiary institutions and wanted those students to continue with their studies.Maloka said the new administration in the city, led by mayor Msimanga, did not care about the informal traders. The new leadership is undermining us and they are arrogant, Maloka said. We wrote several letters to them and they don t want to listen or even respond to us. They come here with a propaganda leadership to stop us from sending our kids to school. Msimanga is an enemy of progress. Our aim as a forum is that we don t want our children to stay in the street and sell bananas like we do. Now they don t want us to go to the mayor and hand over our memorandum. Maloka said the organisation respected the administration as stakeholders of the Tshwane metro but they were left with no option but to embark on a march.Mary Ngema, the organisations secretary, said they used to have a bursary with the previous administration which was allocated to their children as Barekisi ba Tshwane.She said they had 104 kids who were paid for by the previous Tshwane administration, now the office of the economic development said they wouldn t be able to pay for those who were matriculating this year because they didn t have the budget. When the bursary was launched, we, as the parents, raised funds from Power FM, Lanseria and the CSIR, she said. The money was never used in an account held by the economic development. We are surprised to be told that new students wont be able to go to school because there is no funding. Previous students were funded by the mayor and his office. We tried to open a trust fund because we didn t want to depend on money from the municipality. DIKELEDI RAMABOPAprovinces@thenewage.co.za