&nbsp;Business stability in SA and the rest of the continent faces big challenges next year and the major risk is galloping inflation, experts say. Inflation in two of the top three African economies , Nigeria and Egypt is rampant. South Africa is better off but at 6.6% a year, inflation exceeds the Reserve Bank s target band of 3-6% and it is at its highest level in nine months, boosted by increases in food and transport prices.West African giant Nigeria is battling inflation of 18.48%, while north Africa s biggest economy, Egypt, is at 19.4%. South Africa s SADC neighbour, Angola, is crippled by 41.15% inflation. Kenya, east Africa s top economy, is doing relatively well but is seeing a rise from 6.47% in October to 6.68% in November. Policy makers across Africa are facing the challenge of minimising instability without affecting economies ability to raise standards of living.Economic Insight: Africa Q4 2016, a study co-written by local African economics research firm NKC, points out a number of potential risks that could lead to higher inflation. Business across Africa is focused on a range of domestic and external risks to economic stability, it said. A key risk is the multiple potential sources of faster inflation in the year ahead. This economic turmoil is due to the prolonged drought that resulted in a surge in food prices, especially in east and southern Africa, which represent a significant driver of inflation in 2017. Additional inflation risks emanate from local currency weakness and the wage-price effect, as workers seek higher compensation in line with high inflation, although in certain countries pressure on state finances and forced consolidation limit the degree to which wage demands can be met in the public sector.Promoting domestic economic stability is part of avoiding economic and financial crises, large swings in economic activity, high inflation and booming volatility in foreign exchange and financial markets. On the other hand, instability can increase uncertainty, discourage investment, impede economic growth and lower living standards.Middle East, Africa and South Asia director for the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, Michael Armstrong, says a dynamic market economy involves some degree of volatility, as well as gradual structural change, but policy makers will need to identify how best to reduce instability while still retaining the ability to improve living conditions through sustainable growth, productivity and employment.The report also says fiscal consolidation in Zambia and Ghana will see rising utility costs next year. Exchange rate weakness will remain a key source of inflation risk and tight forex liquidity conditions in major oil producers Nigeria and Angola will keep inflationary pressures elevated in 2017, by forcing importers to source their working capital on the parallel currency market.According to the UN Conference on Trade and Development, foreign direct investment flows into Africa fell by 7% to $54bn (R760bn) in 2015, with decreasing flows to SA offsetting larger inflows to north Africa. Some observers think that with the recent developments in the US, policy makers and business in Africa will be keen to see president-elect Donald Trump s trade and development policies.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za