From the end of this month, no elephants will be permitted to be ridden in Botswana. Abu Camp, the only facility that allowed elephant back riding in the country, has been directed to terminate its elephant back safaris.Botswana is seen as the international custodian of the African elephant and has the world s greatest herds. At the Cites convention earlier this year, it voluntarily relinquished its Appendix Two listing of elephants, giving them maximum Appendix One status, seeking their further protection. It has also refused to sell its stockpiled ivory and has disallowed all hunting on state land.The ban on the riding of elephants is an extension of these moves linked to a new government policy, guided by Environment Minister TK Khama.His department studied their subjugation in being forced to carry tourists and found it unacceptable.For centuries, Asian elephants were trained to be ridden as working animals, but recently conservation organisations have highlighted the cruelty involved.Elephants are a lot like humans. They socialise, have families and friends, feel pain, sorrow, happiness and more. In many tourist outfits, they are isolated from other animals and live in virtual solitary confinement.The first commercial elephant rides in Africa began in Zimbabwe in the late 1990s and soon spread throughout southern Africa. In the region there are now 39 commercial elephant venues, holding around 215 captive elephants. At least 25 of these offer elephant rides. Seven of them force elephants to do tricks for tourists.According to the NGO World Animal Protection, most tourists go on elephant rides because they love elephants. They don t know about the intense physical and psychological pain involved. They will not be told that baby elephants are cruelly taken from their mothers, and their spirits harshly broken for training to give rides and perform tricks for tourists. This includes chaining and close confinement, loneliness, tight restraint with ropes or chains and isolation from other elephants and deprivation of food and water. Severe pain is often inflicted with pointed metal bull-hooks. The cruelty elephants endure during breaking stays with them throughout their lives and can leave them suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. And after breaking there is no end to their suffering. Abu Camp supported the Botswana ban. Following an extensive review of its programme and in compliance with recent government directives as of December 31, 2016 Abu Camp will no longer allow guests to ride elephants, it said in a press release. The camp will continue to focus its programme on respectful, less intrusive forms of elephant interaction and education. Among the 39 facilities in southern Africa that offer elephant experiences, 15 of them in South Africa offer rides, seven in Zimbabwe and two in Zambia. DON PINNOCKDon Pinnock is a writer and academic. Article supplied by the Conservation Action Trust