The South African National Road Agency (Sanral) has announced that the much-needed upgrades to the notorious Moloto Road, dubbed the road of death because of many lives lost in recent years through accidents, are scheduled to start in January.The Department of Transport said the statistics taken from January 2012 to May 2014 showed that there were 489 crashes on the Moloto Road, resulting in 158 fatalities and 594 serious injuries.At the beginning of the year, Minister of Transport Dipuo Peters announced that Moloto Road will be made a national road, but the problem with this plan was that the road is simply not in a good condition and for a long time the state of this busy motorway, used by buses and taxis, has been a concern for the government. At the beginning of this financial year we have more than a billion rands to make sure we upgrade the road to make it safe. One of the three E s in road safety intervention is engineering, so the intervention here is the engineering component of the R573, Peters siad. The Finance Minister had also in the 2016 budget speech allocated R3.7bn to upgrade Moloto Road.Moloto Road stretches across three provinces, from Gauteng to Limpopo with most of it cutting through parts of Mpumalanga and neighbouring Pretoria. The three provinces will contribute to the project s budget. Peters said the project would cost about R38m. It could be less than R34m but those are the figures we re working around. The entire project is 124km from Pretoria. So far what has happened is, we have applied to the national treasury for funding, Peters said.Sanral Communications General Manager Vusi Mona said: Contractors on the initial phases have been appointed. The community will benefit through skills training and development during the construction of this project. Mona said various training providers would be procured for the training programmes ranging from engineering, entrepreneurial and generic skills. Various aspects such as pothole repairs, road signage, barriers and drainage have been improved along the route. Construction will begin in the Mpumalanga and Limpopo sections mid-January 2017. The Mpumalanga section is estimated to be completed in January 2018 while construction in Limpopo is estimated for completion in June 2019. This will be the first works of many phases for these sections. Construction in Gauteng will begin in August 2018, Mona said.Speaking to The New Age, one of the beneficiaries said: This will be a good experience from the project. It is a good thing that they thought of giving people a chance to know how things are done in road construction. CHARLOTE HLANGWANE provinces@thenewage.co.za