Two racist killers will spend the rest of their lives in prison after their last attempt to appeal failed in the Constitutional Court on Thursday.&nbsp;In 2004, Phillip Schoombee, 41, and Frederick Frikkie Massyn 30, went on a night of rampage, chasing and assaulting two black men in Rustenburg.According to trial evidence Molatlhegi Motshegwa and his friend Jacob Mokwakwa were leaving a local tavern when they walked past two parked cars with a group of people, including two women, drinking outside. After walking a few more metres, Motshegwa and Mokwakwa noticed the cars chasing them at high speed.They found themselves surrounded and tried to run in different directions but Mokwakwa could not get away. According to a state witness, Schoombie and Massyn got out of the car and took out something from the back of the bakkie and hit Mokwakwa with it He fell to the ground. While Mokwakwa was sprawled on the ground, the driver reversed the vehicle over the deceased. He spun the vehicle wheels on him made a U-turn and drove over him for the third time. The man who had earlier hit the deceased, was still standing by, the court record reads.After their arrest, Schoombie and Massyn claimed Mokwakwa had threatened them with a knife. The court dismissed the claim and they were convicted and sentenced to life in prison. In the Constitutional Court, after failing to appeal in the high court and Supreme Court of Appeal, the two men argued that they had not been given a fair trial, particularly in their attempt to appeal as the original trial record had gone missing.Although the trial transcript was reconstructed, the two men say it was. Rather than challenging the sufficiency of the evidence against the second applicant, or the severity of their sentences, they now directly attack the reconstructed record. They submit it was inadequate. Its use on appeal amounted to a denial of their right to a fair trial. They stress that they proceeded with their appeal using the reconstructed record only because they were desperate after years of delay, the Concourt judgment reads.The appeal was dismissed.dudud@thenewage.co.za