It takes 26 weeks for a company to obtain a value added tax (VAT) refund in SA and much of this poor performance is due to delays from the point of view of the taxpayer.This is one of the findings of a PwC report, Paying Taxes 2017 which reveals that the country s ranking declined from position 20 to 51.The report examines the ease of paying taxes in 190 economies. It models business taxation in each economy using a medium-sized case study company.For the first time, this year s study has been extended to look at the processes that take place after a tax return has been filed. The new post-filing index measures two processes that might take place after filing: claiming a VAT refund, and correcting an error on a corporate income tax (CIT) return including going through an audit when applicable. This is the primary reason why SA s ranking has declined substantially, Kyle Mandy, tax policy leader for PwC SA, said. In a scenario such as this, were taxpayers to comply timeously it would significantly reduce the amount of time it takes to obtain a refund. Unfortunately, it is a South African habit, for varying reasons, to take all the time available to respond to information requests from the tax authorities, Mandy said.She also points out that it takes 25.1 weeks for the tax authorities to complete a CIT audit. The country performs relatively well in this regard and is below the world and Africa averages.The report finds that 162 economies have a VAT system, with a VAT refund available to the case study company in 93 economies. A fast and efficient process can be critical to ensure that a company does not face cash flow difficulties. For economies with a VAT refund system, on average it takes just over 14 hours to make the VAT refund claim, but it then has to wait more than five months almost 22 weeks to receive the refund.The analysis shows it typically takes less time to comply with a VAT refund in high income economies (almost eight hours) than in low income economies (almost 27 hours). A VAT refund triggers an audit in 70% of economies, of which more than half (58%) will go through a comprehensive audit.On further analysis of the difference between low and high income countries, the study finds that in low income economies it can take more than twice as long to comply with procedures to correct CIT errors, and that low income countries are twice as likely to conduct an audit. Until now there has been little information available regarding post-filing compliance burdens. The new post-filing index shows that there are significant variations around the world in how tax authorities approach VAT refunds and corporate income tax audits. It is hoped that the study will allow tax authorities to better understand the effect of these procedures on taxpayers and in the process assist in reforming legislation and practice to enable it to make it easier for companies to do business, Mandy said:In the Africa region, it takes the case study company 18.5 hours on average to correct the error in the corporate income tax return and comply with any resulting audit. In SA, on average it takes a business 14 hours to correct an error in a CIT return. At two hours, the most efficient processes are in Seychelles and Tunisia where an audit is unlikely to be triggered and the least efficient is the Central Africa Republic where an audit is likely to take place, the time to comply with the process is 66 hours.Africa is still a difficult region for paying taxes. It has the highest average number of payments (36.7), and the second highest total tax rate (47.1%) and time to comply (307 hours). The total tax rate continued to increase due to implementing minimum tax rates and increasing social security contributions.The Total Tax Rates in 28 out of the 53 economies in the region are above the world average. SA s total tax rate of 28.8% compares favourably with global and regional economies, Mandy said. However, it ranks behind some of its regional neighbours such as Botswana (25.1%), Mauritius (21.8%), Namibia (20.7%) and Zambia (18.6%). SA has a relatively high rate of profit taxes of 21.7% which is well above the global and Africa averages of 16.3% and 18.2% respectively. There is the added risk that the total tax rate will increase in future as pressure mounts to introduce new taxes on business to fund increasing spending pressures such as social security reform, NHI and education. SA performs reasonably well, ranked 90, on time to comply, below global and Africa averages. SARS filing and payment systems are generally regarded as user friendly and not overly time consuming. The primary area where improvement could be made is on corporate income tax where SA s time to comply is above the world and Africa averages as a result of significant preparation time required before filing a return. Sello Rabothatasellor@thenewage.co.za