TOP job providers, the mining and manufacturing sectors, both slumped in October. Mining failed to hold on the momentum of 3.5% increase recorded in September, dragged down by platinum group metals (PGMs). Figures released by Stats SA yesterday showed mining production down by 2.9% year-on-year in October.PGM production was down 12.5%, manganese ore down 10.5% and production of other nonmetallic minerals was 14% down. Seasonally adjusted mining production decreased by 1.2% compared with September. This followed month-on-month changes of -0.1% in September and 2.4% in August. Mining s contribution to SA s GDP has fallen significantly from 21% in the 1970s to just 6% since 2011.Despite positive contributions by mining towards the third quarter GDP numbers of +5.1% quarter-on-quarter, helped by iron ore production, and also the largest positive contributor in October, analysts said the significant falloff in October signalled first negative signs for what GDP growth may be in the fourth quarter.Domestic manufacturing, which is supported by mine production, also took a nosedive for the second month in a row decreasing 2.7% in October, from 0.2% growth in September. Stats SA said seasonally adjusted manufacturing production decreased by 1.9% in October. The industry s contribution to the South African economy has also shrunk in past decades, now providing just 13.3% of jobs and 15% of GDP.Analysts said the numbers were not surprising, especially given the fact that this week weaker than expected GDP growth of 0.2% in Q3 was largely blamed on a sharp decline in manufacturing activity of 3.2% quarter-on-quarter, while retail sales fell by 2.1% quarteron-quarter hurt by the current recession in the vehicle and furniture sales. Davie Roodt, chief economist at Efficient Group, said no turnaround is expected soon, but calculated that mining could pick up strongly as growth would come off a low base.Azar Jammine, chief economist at Econometrix, said the poor outcome for mining production represented the first piece of hard information on production in the fourth quarter, suggesting caution against undue optimism about the magnitude of any improvement in GDP growth emanating from a recovery in commodity prices. The source of weakness in mining output in October appears to have been spread across many industries within the sector.The only industry displaying substantial strength was diamonds, where month-on-month growth shot up 34.7%. It is apparent from this data that the recovery in Chinese economic growth has not been sufficient to sustain a strongly rising trend in production of many minerals even if it may have resulted in an improvement in commodity prices, he said.He said that the switch in Chinese economic policy away from investment towards consumption has dealt an important negative blow to suppliers of minerals.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za