THE department of social development has called for close attention to be paid to men who impregnate teenagers.The department s spokesperson, Lumka Oliphant, said looking only at the rate of teenage pregnancy should not be the primary action as this is a two-way street situation. It is about time that we looked at the calibre of men who impregnate young girls. If they are impregnated by other teenagers that can be looked at but if it is older men, for example, sleeping with a girl younger than 16 years old it is a crime and the law should look into that, Oliphant said.The spokesperson said the contributory factors that play a role in the heightened number of teenage pregnancies included poor sex and contraceptive education, especially to girls in the rural areas. Some of these girls do not know about the type of contraceptives available to them. Sometimes they are afraid of going to the clinic and asking for those.Other teenage girls are in relationships where they cannot decide for themselves to use preventative measures such as condoms because their partners refuse to, she said.The latest figures show teenage pregnancy rates have dropped by 3% between 2015 to date.The number of teenage and unwanted pregnancies has been fluctuating in the last three years with huge alarming percentages being reported all over the country. In data last updated on August 15, data analyst Carmen Daniels from Stats SA said there were about 42 757 teenagers who were pregnant in South Africa, 32 885 teenage girls had already given birth and 2 261 teenage girls had unsuccessful pregnancies in the last 12 months.Although the data is expected to be fully captured by next year, sources who have experienced teenage pregnancy say more needs to be done to educate the teenager about the complications of falling pregnant at a young age. Nosisi Zweni, a 20-year-old woman who fell pregnant at the age of 15, said most teenagers at that age were not informed of what complications may arise from falling pregnant at a young age. Not only did my pregnancy shock my parents but me as well. I did not know any better and my education suffered, my youth was cut short as now I had to look after someone and at that point, I was still in need of care from parents myself, Zweni said.Statistics South Africa reported a 5.4% increase in teenage pregnancies of girls between the ages of 14 to 19 years in 2013.There was a slight increase in 2014 to 5.6% with 19 year olds leading the pack by 11.9%. The latest statistics from Statistics South Africa showed a 3% decrease for last year with a total of 5.3% in that year overlapping to 2016. The 2016 data is yet to be fully captured and reported. We will report on the 2016 results in 2017 but so far our General Household Survey has produced individual variables and we cannot determine what the outcome will be, Daniels said.The Department of Health said the number of unwanted and teenage pregnancies streaming in was still alarming and they were highly concerned. The Health Department s spokesperson, Joe Maila, said it was a big concern that teenagers still fell pregnant at this rate and he said what was even sadder was that this number also meant scores of teenagers are vulnerable to HIV and sexually transmitted infections. The issue of teenage pregnancy is concerning. As the department, we encourage abstinence. We urge those who are sexually active, especially teenagers, to take advantage of the free condoms that are made available to them by the department. Maila said although there were programmes designed by the government to reduce the number of teenage pregnancies the improvement was not moving at the pace they hoped it would. There is progress but unfortunately not as quickly as we would have liked, Maila said.-NONTOKOZO GXUMISA