Daring robbers made off with an undisclosed amount of money after they pounced on the SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) officials at a social grant pay point near Taung.Two security guards were left injured in the process. The incident happened at Batlhaping Baga Phuduhucwana Tribal Authority Hall in Taung on Tuesday.North West police said six armed suspects encircled the community hall and waited for Sassa employees who were supposed to hand over social grants to elderly people in the area.Provincial police spokesperson, Lt-Col Amanda Funani said: The suspects robbed Sassa employees of an undisclosed amount of money that was supposed to be handed over as social grants to beneficiaries. They fled the scene with a vehicle with a Gauteng (GP) registration number. No one has been arrested yet. Funani added that two security guards were shot and left for dead as the robbers made their wayescape The wounded security guards were ferried to Taung District Hospital with bullet wounds. They were later transferred to Klerksdorp Hospital in a critical condition. The police are investigating a case of armed robbery and attempted murder. We urge anyone with any information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects to come forward, Funani said.She added that the incident took place around 10am.South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) regional secretary in Dr Ruth Mompati district Mika Moeti, condemned the incident. We are concerned about the high rate of crime taking place in Taung,: Moeti said. The criminals have turned the vicinity into their home where they practice their criminal activities. We want to see more police visibility because now criminals and robbers infiltrate rural areas to carry out criminal acts. We also want to urge our community members to be wary of criminals especially now we are heading into the festive season. We will intensify our patrollers to ensure that Taung is the safest place during the festive season. Sassa provincial spokesperson Smanga Selemeni, said that the robbery did not jeopardise beneficiaries as they all managed to get paid. Those who were adversely affected were paid. You will understand that the money is insured and our contractor will replace it as a prerequisite. We have also beefed up our security enforcement and all those who did not receive their money were paid on Wednesday, he said.It is not the first time that robbers have raided social grants pay points and concern is that incidents of this nature were becoming more common and brazen. Newsnote-OBAKENG MAJE