Burundi s President Pierre Nkurunziza was hardly a household name. That was before he turned his country into a hellhole following his unconstitutional decision last year to run for a third term.Burundi is an overpopulated and immensely corrupt state. It shares much the same ethnic map as Rwanda and its principal claim to fame was that it successfully managed its transition to multi-party democracy after a vicious 10-year civil war. The key to this remarkable achievement was a power-sharing arrangement. The arrangement gave a share of executive and legislative power to the two principal, and once bitterly antagonistic, ethnic communities, the Hutu and Tutsi.The Tutsi account for approximately 30% of a population of 10 million. At first, the experiment seemed highly promising. It was formalised in the Arusha accords of 2000 and later enshrined in the 2005 constitution. It offered a striking counter-example to Rwanda s tragic destinies. It all went well until the failed coup of May last year. The light was shone on the regime s savagery. The precipitating factor was Nkurunziza s decision to run for a third term, in violation of the constitution.Burundi today seems dangerously close to a Rwanda-like scenario. The Tutsi minority was targeted once again as a potential victim of genocidal violence. On closer inspection, the events of this year reveal a more ambivalent state of affairs. A significant number of Tutsi elites, civil servants, army personnel, journalists and human rights activists have been killed by pro-regime elements. Scores of Tutsi women have been raped.But the same could be said of the hundreds of Hutu victims. One can t ignore the large number of extrajudicial killings committed by anti-Nkurunziza rebels. These are opponents of Nkurunziza and both Hutu or Tutsi are targets. Since last year, at least 1000 people have been killed. Thousands of others have been arbitrarily arrested and tortured.An estimated 330000 have fled their homeland to neighbouring states.The conflict is not strictly speaking ethnic.It s political. It revolves around the pro- and anti-Nkurunziza s third term option. At the heart of the Burundi enigma lies a paradox.This is the power-sharing formula devised in the Arusha accords the critical element behind the transition to democracy and it still holds. Nonetheless, everything points to a diffuse yet distinctly anti-Tutsi political climate.Today 60% of government positions and parliamentary seats are controlled by Hutu and 40% by Tutsi. The army, as prescribed by the constitution, is evenly split between Hutu and Tutsi, each accounting for 50% of the officer corps and troops. Left out of the accounting, however, is: The growing number of Hutu hardliners in positions of authority; The presence of parallel security organisations under tight Hutu control; The systematic clamping down on civil society organisations, and The climate of pervasive fear created by the omnipresent Hutu-dominated youth militia known as imbonerakure .Burundi is seen by many as alarmingly close to the edge of the abyss. This view is corroborated by the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues report, the 2016 report of the UN High Commission for Human Rights, many Human Rights Watch reports and the international media.But what adds to the sense of pessimism is such actions as the appointment of notorious hardliners to key positions. For example, General Evariste Ndayishimiye s appointment as the secretary general of the Conseil National pour la D fense de la D mocratie-Forces pour la D fense de la D mocratie the ruling party in Burundi. He is known to be a tough-minded general and viscerally anti-Tutsi.Ethnicity is becoming more noticeable as a policy issue. A growing number of Tutsi elements have been excluded from key government positions. The police force and the ruling party s youth wing have become virtually mono-ethnic. Perhaps even more ominous is the outrageous language used by the president of the senate, Reverien Ndikuriyo.Some of his utterances have been reminiscent of the coded euphemisms employed during the Rwanda genocide as synonyms for killing Tutsi. He even made reference to going to work , a metaphor for killing.It is easy to see why the thinly veiled anti-Tutsi posturing of the Nkurunziza regime should be seen by many as payback for the 1972 tragedy. At least 200000 Hutu were killed at the hands of a Tutsi army.The prospects for reconciliation are bleak. Formal gestures by the government to nudge the legitimate opposition parties to join an intra-Burundi dialogue have consistently failed. There have been repeated attempts by organisations like the AU to impose sanctions aimed at stopping atrocities and prepare the ground for the presence of an international protection force.These efforts have not been successful. Internal rifts in the UN Security Council between supporters of Nkurunziza ensured the failure of a concerted diplomatic initiative.Burundi s planned withdrawal from the International Criminal Court in response to pressure to investigate the country s human rights situation stands as another ill omen for the future.Rene Lemarchand Rene Lemarchand is emeritus professor of political science at the University of Florida. This article was first published on www.theconversation.com