Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane admits that on their return from the FIFA Club World Cup his team have to win games and work hard to retain the ABSA Premiership title.Jingles and his players will lag further in league games due to their international commitments in the FIFA Club World Cup in Japan starting on Thursday ,in Japan. I usually listen to Gavin Hunt,he always speaks about points. Last year he got it wrong and this year he&#8217;s right we are not going to get 71 (points) and his right that it will be a little bit difficult for us to win some of the games he saidHe said that the team would be in a difficult position as earlier in the season when Masandawana only had one game under the belt at the beginning of the campaign, four games behind other clubs. Its going to be tough for us we need to play catch up games.. its more pressure and stress because people have points Mosimane said. I believe we will win it but Wits will be there Supersport will come, Pirates will get it going at Orlando Stadium they don t lose , Chiefs don t lose at the FNB stadium . The difference is that..we scoring more goals now Mosimane said .He also said that clubs should take the lead in feeding the South African national team for international success. In the World Cup with the national teams its not happening, we have an opportunity to make it with the club. As a person I could not win the cup of nations with Banana, but I ll win the tournament that represents Africa through a club Mosimane argued.In the seven team tournament , Sundowns will face the winner of the game betweenJ league winners Kashima Antlers who take part as the host countries representatives and OFC Champions league winners Auckland City, He said that if progress cannot be achieved through strong PSL teams, saying that this could be a way to get South African football respected once again especially in Africa.The PSL championship winning coach said that through a strong showing in the continental competitions development can be achieved Internationally. Lets get two of our teams in the semi finals of the Confederation Cup and two of our teams in the semifinals of the champions league he said.The most successful South African coach emphasised the talent that European and South American teams have making mention of the budget that helps theses team&#8217;s success. Mosimane did whoever seem optimistic about his teams chances. We are representing Africa, Ill be happy if we make it to the semi finals to make sure we put Africa in the top four in the world and I think that s a good footprint, Mosimane declared.TNA Reporter