How does a heavyweight boxer react the day he meets an opponent who once spared his life from the jaws of death for a title fight?This is the kind of situation Bidvest Wits midfielder Gabadinho Mhango finds himself in.The talented winger was kicked out of Bloemfontein Celtic last year when it emerged that he had penned a pre-season contract with the Clever Boys.What happened next was utter pandemonium for the now24-year old dribbling wizard, who did not know who else would take him in.Golden Arrows offered him a home for the remainder of the season and, in the process, the club and Mhango formed a formidable bond before he officially joined the Students.While the clash between Wits and Arrows at the Princess Magogo Stadium tonight at 7.30pm is about the points that can move Wits to second place on the log, for Mhango this is a match that forces him to try and make life miserable for the team that offered him a lifeline in his time of need. The winger is still grateful for the good deed Arrows did for him, but he said those feelings will have to be shelved in the 90 minutes of game time. I think about how, when I was told that I would not play for Celtic, Arrows gave me a home. They helped me a lot when I was going through a difficult time. But now I need to help my team. I will never forget what Arrows did for me and they will always be my second home. Any hugs and little chats will be for after the game. The biggest thing for us at Wits is to win and keep pace with the leading group. Our plan is to always be top or in contention to win the league. I am happy things are going well and I am pleased with my personal performance. I want to contribute more to the team, but I cannot hide the fact that I am enjoying being with this team. The Clever Boys are third on the log with 20 points from 10 matches.They would have played two matches less than log leaders Cape Town City when they get on the pitch tonight.Mhango helped win the MTN8 title this year for Gavin Hunt s side.PSL fixtures* All matches start at 7:30pm TonightGolden Arrows v Bidvest WitsHighlands Park v Ajax CapePolokwane City v Chippa UnitedFree State Stars v Baroka FCKaizer Chiefs v BloemfonteinFridayCape Town City FC v SuperSport UnitedMMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za