After the departure of outspoken German coach Ernst Middendorp, Maritzburg United are looking for a suitable replacement, according to Chairman of Maritzburg United Farook Kadodia.Middendorp said that after a few games, he realised that the challenge to save the club was in fact made even more difficult by challenges that were really beyond his control. However, again on the field, circumstances put us in a disadvantage and as such we lost critical points that would see us on a much better position on the log by now. It was very difficult to continue under such circumstances.Eventually after the Highlands Park game where even the fans became emotional, I took two days off to reflect on the situation and the club brand being under threat as a result, the German said.At the time Kadodia said that we are grateful to the coach for the foundation he has laid, the combination of youth and experience. He leaves us with 10 points after 10 games, having promoted about five players from the Diski Team, and the Diski team itself is doing well at the moment. Kododia also said it was a very painful decision to allow the coach to go. He said he tried to persuade him to stay but Middendorp was adamant that to leave was the best thing to do for the sake of the club.The club is now looking for a new head coach to lead the team, taking them into the top 8 and concluding the season in a favourable position on the table. The name of former Ajax Cape Town coach Roger de Sa has been heavily linked to the job in KwaZulu-Natal. We&#8217;ve got quite a few matters to look at. Obviously to leave Cape Town is kind of difficult, Kadodia said. He said the team is looking for somebody that will hopefully stay here and build on a project here in Maritzburg.He said that the team will in January look to make some kind of decision, we are playing games so fast in the next two weeks or so, that by the time a new coach is here and settles it will be quite difficult ( for the coach), said Kadodia. He added that finding a coach is difficult because it&#8217;s like judging a book by its cover.&#8211;TNA Reporter