Kimberley s popular vigilante group Wanya Tsotsi brought in yet another collection of weapons, including knives, to the Galeshewe police station last week.The men and women, dressed in yellow reflector jackets and branded white T-shirts had also confiscated guns, pangas, blow lamps, Mandrax tablets, dagga, ogre pipes and toy guns from criminals and ordinary members of the community.Wanya Tsotsi, a group which was formerly regarded as vigilantes and almost bordering on criminal behaviour has now seen favour with police and the government of the province.The leader of Wanya Tsotsi Tebogo Obusitse has over the years stood firmly behind the members who stay awake at night to protect their community from thugs.Obusitse said the weapons signified a problem within the society where ordinary citizens made it a habit of carrying dangerous weapons with them wherever they go.Some weapons were found in school yards, parks, outside the doors of taverns and on ordinary people in the streets.Wanya Tsotsi has now gained a reputation for fighting crime alongside the police.The group began operating officially two years ago and has managed to put both men and women who were caught causing problems for others behind bars.It has also not only confiscated and helped police with arrests, but has also gone to court to give hard evidence against criminals caught in the act.Wanya Tsotsi has a total of 56 members in Galeshewe of which 20 are in Lerato Park, one of the most dangerous communities in the city, 28 in Ritchie, and 13 in Roodepan.Obusitse said they decided to patrol the streets because they were tired of criminals running rampant in the streets and of being undermined by their brutality.He said all they want is a police van accompanying them during the patrols so they can follow proper procedure. We had these meetings before and all we ask for is one van to accompany us to the patrols. We are effective. We would also like to work with the Sol Plaatje local municipality s street committees where we can find a lasting solution to crime prevention, Obusitse said.The Northern Cape crime statistics this year revealed that contact crimes, which include rape, murder, attempted murder, common robbery and common assault, together with property related crimes were top of the agenda for the police.Despite the 91 stations, five clusters and 7 250 police officers deployed, the crime rate went up by 1.5%, an increase of 733 cases.The report also states that in the 2014-15 financial year, there were 49 518 cases reported while in 2015-16, 50251 cases were reported, signalling an increase in the crime rate.The head of visible policing, Col Hennie van Rensburg, said the police were happy to be working alongside Wanya Tsotsi in the fight against crime.However, Van Rensburg said, it still has to follow proper procedures when receiving the weapons. We will have to take fingerprints and as you can already see, some of the Wanya Tsotsi members have already put their fingerprints on the weapons and we know that some of the weapons have been involved in heinous crimes, he said.Van Rensburg said after receiving the confiscated weapons, they input them in the SAP 13 register and then take a statement from Wanya Tsotsi.The station commander of Witdam police station, Brig Nomana Adonis, said there was no way of protecting the Wanya Tsotsi group against criminals who open cases against them.Obusitse said while none of their members were facing criminal charges, in the past they have been arrested and have appeared in court despite being a reputable organisation.Adonis said it was unfortunate the police do not have a database of Wanya Tsotsi members and this leads to their arrest as well. It is only after the leaders of Wanya Tsotsi identify that person as their member, do we release them. Our plan for now is to incorporate Wanya Tsotsi into to the Community Policing Forum, so they do not find themselves victims while trying to help the police, she said.The transport, safety and liaison MEC, Pauline Williams, said they understand the need for Wanya Tsotsi to contribute to a safer community. We have wonderful laws in this country and we cannot have people who abuse these laws. People must know we are going to enforce them, she said.Williams said the criminals must know that in the Northern Cape, they arrest first and read the law later. She said in most cases family members know their children are involved in criminal activities. As a parent, when you see weapons like these in your house, what goes through your mind? she said. Why do you wait for the police to knock on your door before you respond to this problem? Williams said the government cannot afford to have one police officer for every household when the community is there to assist. You, the community members, know who the criminals are and you are harbouring them. Tell us who they are so we make our community better. Criminals must know that we, as the government, will not tolerate this barbaric behaviour. They will face the full might of the law, she said.nomusam@thenewage.co.za