Not only did Daniel Letebele lose R32000 to a dodgy sangoma but the woman, known as Gogo Sophie, turned the man against his family.Letebele, however, is not alone. The authorities have warned the community to be sceptical of the exaggerated claims of illegal sangomas who promise everything from instant wealth to love.Police spokesperson Capt Kay Makhubela said they had dealt with many such cases. In the past few weeks they arrested a 25-year-old man for scamming a patient of more than R100000 which he managed to get out of the victim in instalments.The victim had found the healer through a pamphlet. The healer has been charged and appeared in court.Letebele s story began when an uncle told him that Gogo Sophie had claimed there was a witches gate in his Soweto garden. We agreed she should come and remove it, he said. She started digging and after a while a plastic bag emerged from the ground. This, she said, was the witches gate and we believed her. Then mysterious envelopes started appearing in his garden and Gogo claimed the witches were not giving up. Letebele was encouraged to attend treatment baths at her place and he would go on a regular basis.He was also sold an mpinda (a repeat process) for R4 000 to ward away the bad spirits. During building renovations at his home his arm became painful and he became ill.Gogo blamed his uncle who, at that stage, had become a fully-fledged sangoma.She suggested that his uncle was trying to kill him because he had gone to the Daily Sun with the story of his witches woes.Letebele asked her for advice and he told her that usually sangomas charged R30000 for this special service which involved the burning of a bird, but because they knew each other, she would charge R15000.He paid R3 500 to start the ritual and raided the children s money box for a further R1 500 for transport. But it seemed that despite rituals the Gogo was unable to burn the bird .She needed the full amount and needed to consult with the person who trained her.He then started to receive strange calls from a mystery person who said they were dying and his uncle was to blame. Then the SMSs claimed to come from a dead person .Even though this happened a while ago Letebele still cries in distress. Gogo told him he needed to buy a grave for R750 and a goat for R1 200 to appease the spirits of the dead man.He borrowed money from everybody he knew, finally paying her the outstanding R15000 to resolve his bad luck.The heartless sangoma then used the sudden death of his girlfriend to trick him further. On July 12, 2015 he received a call to say his girlfriend, who had started partying and drinking, had died. Gogo said the suicide was because she was a HIV-positive prostitute and he needed further cleansing.Broke and desperate Letebele downloaded WhatsApp and saved all the mysterious calls under a contact he named Masego.Then he realised the photograph attached to the account was of the girl that lives with Gogo. He called the number and Gogo answered. The girl confessed and Gogo was bust, Letebele said.He laid a complaint at Sifozonke, an umbrella body for traditional healers, and Gogo pleaded guilty.She was ordered to pay back R20000 but so far he has only received R5000. This traditional healing thing is evil, Letebele said. It s dodgy. I nearly died. ANN7 decided to check out how easy it was to get treatment from one of the healers who advertised through pamphlets on street corners. The call took us into the Johannesburg city centre.On the corner of Bree and Simmonds streets are the rooms of a traditional healer. We recorded the conversation using an undercover camera.We told him our tale of woe and were given a choice, a rat or magic ring at R750. Needless to say, we did not return.Another victim Ntombizodwa Nkosi was retrenched and started getting painful sores. She eventually paid out R4 500 of the R7 500 that was requested by a Nigerian sangoma, but finally went to a medical doctor and was cured. I paid only R16 to open a file at the hospital and I am now fine, Nkosi said.CRL Rights Commission chairperson Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said catching these illegal traditional healers was difficult because they had no fixed addresses. She warned that people should not be taken in by fantastic promises.news@thenewage.co.za