Human trafficking is a huge challenge, especially during the festive season when people flock to South Africa s borders.The traffickers lure potential victims with promises of jobs and better economic conditions offered by big cities. Many young women who fall victim to these scammers end up in prostitution and brothels.Earlier this year, the North West Police Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, made a number of arrests, particularly in Rustenburg, after it declared war on human trafficking.In July this year, three men were arrested after police stopped a speeding delivery van. Fifty-seven Malawian children were found to have been crammed in the back of the windowless vehicle. It is suspected that the children were being trafficked for labour or sexual exploitation.In a number of awareness campaigns done to alert residents on the dangers of human trafficking, Hawks Lt Patricia Motswana told people at Rustenburg s taxi rank that people needed to be aware of the causes and the preventative steps that can be taken to avoid becoming a victim of human trafficking. Do not allow yourselves to be enticed by job prospects that sound too good to be true. Traffickers know that young girls aspire to have nice things and live good lives, hence they capitalise on that vulnerability, Motswana said.From the taxi rank, Hawks and various other stakeholders and interested parties marched for about 7km for a formal address at the civic centre under the escort of the department of public safety.Sirens wailed to draw out residents from their houses to the roadsides where they read messages on the placards and listened to the address by the march leaders.Hawks provincial head Maj Gen Linda Mbana said: We voluntarily marched the 7km distance and voluntarily climbed that steep hill. However, think about the numerous hills that victims of trafficked persons have to climb daily. With bruises throughout their bodies and no food in their bellies, their lives are a constant uphill battle. That is why we are here today, we want put an end to this illegal trade in humans by equipping girls and boys, men and women with knowledge that can save them from potentially being victims of human trafficking. She said that the march was prompted by two incidents of human trafficking where victims were rescued in the past two weeks. I m happy to say that on July 7 this year, we arrested three male suspects and rescued a 21-year-old woman. The victim was taken to her home in Tweelagte village where the family welcomed her. The following day a representative of the family walked into our offices and explained that he came to convey a message of gratitude for the great work done by the Hawks, Mbana said.In another incident, on July 11, a 24-year-old woman visited one of the Hawks offices, where she reported a case of rape and human trafficking. The victim led the Hawks to the suspect s home where a man was arrested. The victim is recovering at a safe house. As the Hawks, we managed to oppose the suspect s bail and he remains in police custody, she said.Rustenburg mayor Mpho Khunou led a team from the municipality to support the work done by the Hawks.Other speakers included advocate Walter de Beer from the Nodal Point for Trafficking in Persons.He urged parents to be proactive and ensure that they knew the whereabouts of their children at all times. Trafficking in persons is modern-day slavery. Traffickers use force, fraud or manipulation to lure their victims and force them into labour or commercial sexual exploitation, he said.Despite women and children being the major targets of human traffickers, men too are caught in this net.Like other victims, men are commonly used as labourers and as drug mules or drug runners.Community members were encouraged to be vigilant and report cases of trafficking in persons as it does not just affect the victims but also the families and friends.Despite emphasis on international human trafficking, many of South Africa s human trafficking cases do not leave South African borders.According to a report released by the US Department of State, South Africa does not meet the minimum requirements of the prevention of human trafficking and that efforts were hindered by SAPS serious lack of capacity .ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za