Home Affairs director-general Mkuseli Apleni has defended South Africa s tit for tat response to New Zealand s imposition of visa regulations for South Africans.In an interview with The New Age yesterday, Apleni said New Zealand s announcement earlier this year that from November 21 South African travellers would be required to obtain a visa before entering New Zealand was irrational.It is for this reason that Apleni said SA responded in kind. It is our view that it was not correct for them to impose visas on South Africans. The reasons which they are advancing do not have evidence so hence we said at the moment, let s also impose the same visa regime, Apleni said.He said SA was merely exercising its sovereign right to make changes to New Zealand visa regulations for travelling to the country. As agreed in international protocols that once you do that, I can also reciprocate as a country against your decision. Apleni, making reference to the country s border posts in light of the expected festive season influx, said that the department would go into overdrive to ensure free-flowing movement across the country s border crossings. In land ports we ve got six big land ports which is your Beitbridge. In a day we process 29000 travellers. During this time, we ll increase the hours so people do not drive fast because the port is going to be closing at midnight. They know now that it will be open for 24 hours but to do that we still need to add more resources. Apleni s comments were a response to experiences of chaos at the country s border crossings due to the large numbers of people travelling between the countries over the festive period.Apleni said the special dispensation permits for Lesotho nationals studying or working in SA had been extended.He said that this would allow Lesotho nationals to live and work in the country legally. We are now implementing a Lesotho special permit. We are trying to regularise them. We will give them study and work permits, he said.Apleni also said Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba s remarks that illegal immigrants leave the city was tantamount to racial profiling. Let us not profile anybody with regard to a crime, be it you re a national or foreign national or white or black. Crime is just crime. Let us not profile certain groups and link them with a particular crime. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za