A RELATIONSHIP without sex can feel like the end of the world for many couples who are unable to share their bedroom woes with friends or trusted family members.Even though help is at hand, sexless discussions can cause shame and embarrassment among sufferers due to social taboos surrounding sexuality.In relationship counselling, a marriage or relationship is considered sexless if the couple is only having sex on average once a month or less. It is a point in time in a relationship where a couple has sex 10 or fewer times a year, reads an extract from Dead Bedroom Resurrection by Quinn Covington. Some stop having sex completely, their libidos being vacuumed out by the negativity and pain that exists within the relationship. According to a recent study conducted by Ashley Madison, in South Africa 18% of men and 27% of women admitted to having less or no sex in their marriage.Last year, one brave American couple shocked the masses whey they put their sexless marriage problems in a video titled Confessions From a Sexless Marriage. Viewers were introduced to Anita and Alton, the proud parents of four who had gone sexless for four long years.While in the past sex was presented as a wifely duty, recent statistics also point to the fact that more men are saying no to nookie .According to a US study, 20-30% of men have been found to have little or no sex drive at all. In many relationships, impotence and low libido are cited as some of the main reasons more couples stop coupling.The term libido, which focuses on a person s overall desire for sexual activity, was coined by Austrian neurologist Sigmund Freud, which he believed was genetically part of a human s need to survive. While some people possess an unquenchable sex drive, some are in the middle, while others are just not sexual beings at all , Covington writes.He also explained how some couples may seem to have it going in the beginning only for the cracks to start showing once everything seems to settle into a rut. When the relationship is new, both libidos maybe temporarily increased. Low libido partners may sacrifice their needs to please their partners and appear to be a good catch. It s also possible for the converse to be true whereby the high libido attempts to conceal their raging desire for sex, for the same reason. Covington says it s important for couples to understand where they fall in the libido scale. While there is no specific guideline on how much sex is the right amount, couples who have it on average once or twice a week seem to report the greatest levels of satisfaction in their marriages.In her recent book, The SexStarved Marriage, relationship expert Michele Weiner Davis underscores the importance sex plays in a healthy relationship. When it s good, it offers couples opportunities to give and receive physical pleasure, to connect emotionally and spiritually, she writes. It builds closeness, intimacy and a sense of partnership. In short, sex is a powerful tie that binds. What about the untold outcomes that comes with not having sex? First, the bad news. Not having sex can cause vaginal atrophy, American gynaecologist Florence Comite said on familycircle.com. This is a loss of cells that keep the vagina moist and combined with less blood flow, the result is thinning and drying of the tissue down there. Not only can this lead to painful sex when you do have it but it can also cause more bladder infections and incontinence. On the other hand, getting it on has ample unexpected benefits including glowing skin and hair, strong nails and a healthy heart, to name just a few.-tankisok@thenewage.co.za