This past Saturday was the birthday of six-year-old Keitumetse Magwadibane who was kidnapped and went missing in July.December 3 was a sombre day for her parents, Frank and Magaret Magwadibane, who last saw their little girl when they sent her to the shop with a friend.Margaret said she still misses her baby girl and no matter how much she tries to move on, her memory still remains alive.Margaret said it was quite sad that the law could not apprehend the suspects believed to have kidnapped her daughter. The Wanya Tsotsi group and the community members did all that they could and we are grateful for that, she said.Although Margaret did not get any justice for her child s disappearance four suspects were arrested and appeared in court, but the case was struck off the roll she said she is better now. The court did nothing for us, now we are forced to live in the same neighbourhood with people who may be responsible for our child s disappearance, she said.Magwadibane was five years old when she went missing. On November 24 Joseph Mbongo, 38, Norah Mazibuko, 55, Maruping Kgwabane, 38, and Clarence Khumto, 23, appeared in the Galeshewe Magistrate s Court for the child s disappearance. But police spokesperson Col Mohale Ramatseba said the case was struck off the roll due to insufficient evidence. Police investigations are still continuing to ensure that those responsible for the girl s disappearance are unmasked, he said.After hearing the court outcome, residents went on the rampage and burned down the house of one of the suspects in Phuthanang township.Provincial police commissioner Lt-Col Peter Shivuri said while the police are sensitive to the disappearance of the little girl, they condemned in the strongest terms the torching of the house. A case of arson has been opened but no arrests have been effected. At the time of the arson, no one was in the house and the estimated cost of the damage has not been determined. Police investigations are continuing and no stone will be left unturned to ensure that those responsible for the arson are brought to book, he said.Meanwhile residents say they did not feel safe since the four suspects were released back into the community.One resident, Thami Jacobs, 41, said the woman was a well known traditional healer in her community. She deserves what she got. How do you release people who kidnap our children? How are we ever supposed to feel safe? she said. I will never forget what she did to this community. It seems as though this place has become a place for predators who prey on little children, she said.While residents remain angry, Wanya Tsotsi chairperson Tebogo Obusitse said they tried all they could to assist the family find their missing child.On Thursday night, Obusitse and the Wanya Tsotsi crime fighting group prayed for the family and their missing child during the handover of weapons to the police and the MEC.He said he hoped the family could find closure and that the suspects responsible for such crimes are found. What we aim to do is ensure that our children are able to feel safe in our streets, said Obusitse. We will, however, keep awake and assist the police in the fight against such criminal elements, he said.South Africa is gaining notoriority for the high number of children who go missing every year. Missing Children South Africa said a child goes missing in South Africa every five hours. According to figures released by the South African Police service missing persons bureau for 2013, this adds up to a total of 1 697 children. Fortunately, 77% of these children are found which leaves us with 23% who cannot be located. According to a statement released by Rose Mac Kinnon between December 2015 and August 2016, there were at least 142 children missing and 111 found in South Africa.In the Northern Cape of the three children who went missing, two were found.Mac Kinnon said the highest incidence of missing children took place in Gauteng, followed by the Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape.Mac Kinnon says of those cases, 59% are unknown, 26% are runways, 0.5% are kidnappings while 0.2% have been confirmed as human trafficking.She said that 76% of the cases involved children between the ages of 13 and 17 while 14.2% of the children were between 7 and 12 years and 11.2% were below the ages of six.NOMUSA MVUBUnomusam@thenewage.co.za