Steve Komphela s safety at Kaizer Chiefs will be determined by results in upcoming matches.Despite enjoying the support of club management, the Chiefs coach hasn t been a popular figure among the fans who again expressed their frustrations with him.Irate fans threw objects at the sharply dressed Komphela following yet another disappointing result as home as Amakhosi were held to a 1-1 draw by Cape Town City at FNB Stadium on Tuesday.Just as they did against SuperSport United last week, a section of Amakhosi fans pelted Komphela with bottles as he walked to the dressing room.But despite imminent danger, Komphela insisted he still enjoyed the backing of his bosses even as his team sunk deeper into a rut of six matches without a win. I think it s very important to accept the realities of modern life and I m sure I m not the first person faced with submissions or remarks made against me, Komphela said. It happens not only in sports, but almost everywhere, even politically. All you can say is listen, I have a job to do, I have a responsibility . You can hear what s happening, but you have to be strong enough to focus because you have a job to do. Komphela has been under immense pressure since the beginning of the season and things are not getting any better with results not forthcoming.The last time Chiefs recorded a victory was October 15 when they defeated Ajax Cape Town 2-0 at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban.All looked good when Mitchell Katsavairo put them ahead just two minutes into the match, only for City to equalise through Matthew Sim in the second half. The team is not doing well. The supporters want results and we are not giving them what they want. They want to see results. You have to take it. The biggest challenge is to handle pressure. You ve got to take it and accept that they deserve better. With regards to how it is at Naturena, there is always support, always. They understand the challenges we are going through because our team is about results. But I do enjoy the support. NEVILLE KHOZA