A sixty old blind father has lost a claim for compensation against the Road Accident Fund (RAF) because he could not prove he was indigent after the death of his son in a car accident in 2012.Jacob Mokhati s son was 33 years old at the time of his death and supported his family with his R3000 salary. After his son s death, Mokhati claimed for loss of support from the RAF. Among the arguments he put forward was that in south Sotho custom, his son had a duty to support him and fund his parents household necessities. I do not see it necessary to delve further into traditional customs, as there are a number of decided cases in which it has been held that such customs should be taken into account with regard to the duty of a child to support his or her indigent parents, North Gauteng High Court judge Natvarlal Ranchod, who dismissed the claim, said.Mokhati testified that his son had supported him with between R400 and R500 a month, but that sometimes his son was unable to give him money if he had other financial commitments. With his R1 400 a month disability grant, Mokhati supports his other children and family, but said it was not enough without his son s contributions.Mokhati said that his current monthly expenses go up to R1 758. However, the judge found that there was difficulty in establishing the son s monthly income and whether it was stable and regular. The plaintiff (Mokhati) testified that his son supported him on average six to eight months a year. He said that immediately prior to his son s death he had worked for Starlight, but the plaintiff could not remember for how long. He was referred in cross-examination to his affidavit in support of his claim, which had been discovered by the plaintiff s attorney. In the second paragraph of his affidavit, he said that the deceased had worked for Starlight for only five months, the judge said.The court dismissed Mokhati s claim on the grounds that the onus was on him to prove his case. He failed to do so on a balance of probabilities. He has not proved that he is indigent, the judge said.Dude Dube| dudud@thenewage.co.za