Alfred Nzo municipality chief whip Noziphiwo Tobo has said that development needs more than clean running water, sanitation, roads and other infrastructure to be achieved.She said that igniting local economic development in the region is also an important step on the road to development. Tobo was speaking during the launch of the R114.4m Ntibane and Umzimvubuu Ward 13 water supply schemes, which will benefit the 17 815 residents of ward 10, 12 and 13 in the Umzimvubu local municipality.She also launched the R1.4m maize production and fencing projects at Mtsila village in KwaBhaca, formerly known as Mount Frere. Unemployment rates and poverty levels are very high in our district, which is why we have taken development and upliftment strategies into our own hands. We must develop strategies and initiatives that will lift our communities out of poverty. As part of the integrated rural development programme, and as a response to the National Development Plan and our local economic development strategy, we have introduced the Agri-Parks programme in collaboration with the Department of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform. The programme is aimed at ensuring economic transformation for rural areas, Tobo said.She said that the agri-parks also will support maize production. The R1.4m project seeks to turn underutilised land, especially communal land, into productive land. This should also serve to fight unemployment and poverty. One hundred hectares of land will be ploughed and 16 projects owned by cooperatives across the district will be fenced and established, Tobo said.The multimillion-rand Ntibane water supply scheme will bring clean water to the villages of Mgungundlovu, Qhanqu, Mhlotsheni, Lutshikini, Mtsila, Mpoza, Lutateni, Manqilweni, Tyeni, Nguse, Gubhuzi, Mhlutha and Nyosini rural villages.The project created more than 450 job opportunities for locals. Additionally, the water supply project will reach out to more than 4 379 households in these villages.The water supply project included the construction of a water treatment works, a river abstraction pump station, a 2 million litre reservoir and booster pump station, a 17.8km bulk pipeline, three additional reservoirs, two booster hand pumps, a pump station, and a 6.6km reticulation and standpipe.Alfred Nzo district municipality is the poorest district in the Eastern Cape. Its high levels of poverty and unemployment are exacerbated by a lack of infrastructure.The district is mainly rural and many residents rely on subsistence agriculture. There are low levels of access to clean water in the district. Access to piped water above RDP level increased from 18% to 40% from 1996 to 2008. Similarly, there has been an increase in access to piped water below RDP level.Despite this, more than half the households in the municipality do not have access to clean water.INDIE BOYCEindiphileb@thenewage.co.za