One of the most pleasant things I have had the pleasure of experiencing in my life has to be being made welcome in Japan.Never before have I encountered a people so cultured, respectful and conscious.After meeting with several aggressive people in Egypt a few months ago, I found everything about the Japanese to be pleasant.Ever since I arrived in Japan via Osaka International Airport last week, I have been with fellow reporters from the local media houses.It happened that we lost contact with each other yesterday morning and I was forced to take two trains from Umeda to the Suita Football Stadium to attend Mamelodi Sundowns press conference, attended by Keegan Dolly and coach Pitso Mosimane ahead of Sundowns clash against Asian Champions Jeonbuk Hyundai.The map that details the city and train stations helped me to easily get around and people were always happy to help with a smile.It was during this trip that I would challenge a few misconceptions about Japan.&nbsp;DisciplineThis is one of the main things I respect about the people of Japan. Not only are they disciplined, they always treat strangers with courtesy.As I tried to buy a train ticket in Umeda for Senri-Chuo station, a woman offered to help me. This reminded me of the night before, where a man stopped to explain to me that in Japan, pedestrians respect road signs in the same way motorists are expected to.If the traffic light does not say it is okay for pedestrians to cross, even if there are no cars, you still do not pass.When I stepped off my first train, a woman chased after me, leaving me nervous as I thought maybe I had done something wrong. But she had come to hand me an umbrella, which she thought was mine. It was raining on the day. I told her it was not mine and she gave me a big laugh, apologised and went to hand it over to security guards.Minutes later, I encountered a man called Hiroshi, a 32-year-old salesman, who was about to take a train to Osaka Airport. I asked him how the city stayed so clean. It is what we are taught. We don t litter. We pride ourselves in being clean, he replied.I also asked him about a myth I heard that children in Japan are not given tests until they are 10. During that time, they are only taught good manners, respect, discipline and good behaviour. That is true. I don t know exactly until what age, he responded.Hiroshi is telling me this while we are both trying to figure out how to get a monorail from Senri-Chuo to Banpaku-Kinen-Koen.Surprisingly, Hiroshi is in the area for the first time and I, a South African in Osaka, was able to help him get the right train. We were able to help each other because I had an idea of the way and he could read Japanese.We parted as friends when our trains came.FoodI have tried a few dishes, though I do not know their names. I did try sushi and all I can say for now is that I need a few days to really get used to it. Even their rice is different; it doesn t taste like ours. It s very soft.For most of my stay, I have been sticking to hamburgers as their chicken is over baked and their attempt to provide a KFC-type meal is not memorable.I asked a fellow journalist from Nippon TV, named Naoki Yasumura, who was travelling with us to Sundowns training session, about another story I had encountered about the Japanese eating dogs, crocodiles, donkeys and snakes.His answers were hilarious. No. In Japan, we don t eat dogs. It is the Koreans who eat dogs and donkeys. We also don t eat crocodiles. But I will be honest, Japanese do eat snakes. They say it tastes nice. I don t agree. But you know why they eat it? They believe it makes them stronger in bed the next day! His answer left me with a clear choice. To look for the nearest eatery to sample some snake dish, but do not ask me how that experience went.The only two thing that I can complain about with regards to the country is that it gets really cold. Temperatures go as low as -6 C, while it rains on top of that. Another issue for me is that things are really experience.A McDonald s double cheese burger cost me 3000 yen, which I m told is over R350!I will have to start pretending that I am fasting until we fly back to South Africa tomorrow night. Until then, arigatho (that means thank you).mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za