As the country takes part in the 16 Days of Activism of No Violence Against Women and Children campaign, a female private security officer is receiving counselling after she was brutally raped and attacked while on duty at Mokgapeng clinic in Tzaneen.The woman, whose name is being withheld and a male colleague were keeping guard at the 24 hour public health clinic on the night of December 5 when criminals cut through the fence and attacked them.The suspects attacked the two guards and disarmed them. As if that was not enough, the suspects then repeatedly raped the female security officer.Her male colleague was also severely assaulted.Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba expressed disgust and shock at the incident. Ramathuba said it was a setback to gender equality as some women, including nurses, are already refusing to work night shifts in areas where they think their gender will put them at risk of sexual assault.She said it is disturbing to learn that people who are tasked with the responsibility of ensuring the safety of patients and staff members are being targeted by criminal elements. This further deals a huge blow to our efforts to render the much needed 24 hour service at out clinics as nurses now fear for their safety, Ramathuba said.The department has since deployed its team of officials to investigate the incident, which is also under police investigations. We will continue to support the female security officer who is undergoing treatment and counselling. The male guard is also receiving counselling and support. Commission for Gender Equality spokesperson Jabu Baloyi said it is depressing that the attack and humiliation of the female worker occurred at the time when people are rallying behind the 16 Days of Activism campaign. This calls for society and employers to ensure that female workers and their male counterparts of course are protected at work. We call on law enforcement agencies to ensure that perpetrators in this brutal crime are speedily arrested and brought to book, Baloyi said.Police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said the incident is still under police investigations.A private investigator who prefers to remain anonymous said: There are some areas where gender equality becomes challenging to implement. On several occasions I advised the government that it is risky to put female security guards on night duties in a high risk environment. The same can be said about female police officers .A similar incident occurred at Mamone clinic were a female guard was attacked and raped.In June this year, two guards, a man and a woman, were working the night shift at Straighthard clinic at Nzhelele in Vhembe when unknown gunmen attacked them. They were shot in the legs and arms. But the gunmen allegedly fled the scene after realising that the wounded security officers had no firearms, provincial government spokesperson Derick Kganyago said.The other common dangers facing private security guards at government institutions are attacks from gangs who need firearms. So far we have had 15 cases across the province in which guards were attacked and robbed of their firearms. Two male guard were attacked and killed last year while on duty, one in Mopani and the other one in Phaladelphia, Dennilton outside Groblersdal.The health department said community members should expose criminals who threaten the 24 hour health service while the government is exploring possibilities of insourcing security services.MONTSHO MATLALA