Miss South Africa Ntandoyenkosi Kunene sashayed away gracefully from the Miss World 2016 pageant stage after she lost out to Miss Puerto Rico s Stephanie Del Valle on Sunday at MGM National Harbour in Washington DC.Kunene, who has been preparing for the big day since she jetted off to the US on November 25, strutted her stuff on the Miss World stage looking flawless and draped in a gold gown designed by none other than South African doyen of fashion, JJ Schoeman.Although the 24 year old did not make it to the finals, it was clear from her social media posts that she was proud to have flown the South African flag high at the 66th edition of the pageant.Taking to her Instagram page to thank South Africans who have supported her, Kunene said: Thank you so much for all the support you have given me. It means so much to me. I had a beautiful time and I m ready for the next adventure iNtandoyenkosi yenzekile (The Lord s will has been done). The official Miss SA organisation also commended Kunene for a job well done. We are in awe of how graceful, beautiful and strong you are! You ve done your nation proud, Ntando! We salute you. A HUGE congratulations to you, we are so proud of you, said a post on the pageant s official Twitter page.The Mpumalanga-born beauty is gearing up to embark on yet another world renowned beauty competition, the 65th Miss Universe, which is set to take place in January in the Philippines.There is no doubt that Kunene, an advocate of education for young women in South Africa, will hold her own at the Miss Universe competition, since the organisation emphasises the importance of a dedicated international platform of charitable partnerships.Congratulatory messages streamed in on all social media platforms for the new Miss World.Kunene was among those who extended messages to the Puerto Rican beauty queen and captioned a photo they took together after the finals, saying: Aha man&#8230;.. Happiness all around (sic). Del Valle, a 19-year-old brunette, is a student who speaks Spanish, English and French, and hopes to break through into the entertainment industry. She was crowned by Miss World 2015, Mireia Lalaguna of Spain.During her crowning Del Valle said that the crown was both an honour an a responsibility. She is Puerto Rico s first Miss World winner since 1975.news@thenewage.co.za