Warring factions within the ANC s former military wing have agreed to a ceasefire as an attempt to build bridges and smooth relations.In an interview with The New Age yesterday, MK veteran and Correctional Services Deputy Minister Thabang Makwetla said despite the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) snubbing an earlier olive branch from a group of former senior leaders of MK, the factions have agreed to mend fences in a meeting scheduled for early next year. We also approached the MK veterans leadership for a meeting to share our views with them and to make them understand the need for an inclusive dialogue. They agreed but later decided not to avail themselves for that meeting. We are happy that they subsequently sent signals that they have since reconsidered their stance and are now willing for an engagement. We we will be meeting them as soon as people are back from the festive season holidays, Makwetla said.But Makwetla cautioned that the MKMVA should be wary of venturing into factional battles as this threatened to tarnish the legacy of the ruling party s structures. The increasing practice of officials of MKMVA articulating political positions purportedly in the name of the entire community of former members of Umkhonto we Sizwe without consultation is problematic. That creates a big problem. It is actually not helping to resolve the ANC challenges, but instead aggravates the factional battles within the movement, he said.Makwetla s comments come hard on the heels of the national council that was convened at the weekend by the aggrieved veterans.Following the meeting, the former leaders of the MK called for the ANC s constitution to be reviewed and to plug existing loopholes within the management of the organisation .Making reference to the ANC s elective conference next year, Makwetla reflected that the election of the ANC leadership was the party s biggest Achilles heel .He said the elective elections were often marred by factional battles. However, he pleaded that the organisation should strive not to have a repeat of the combative Polokwane conference of 2007. It is one of the organisation s biggest challenges to ensure that the conference does not allow any space for factions. If in the conference preparations there are not interventionist to curb factional measures, then we are simply going to see a repeat of the sorry performance we experienced in previous conferences, Makwetla said.Makwetla also defended the status and the right of the former MK leaders to hold their own national council. This initiative we had at the weekend was consulted with the office of the secretary-general (Gwede Mantashe) under whom MKMVA was placed by the conference resolutions that established MKMVA for its management and supervision, he said.MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe said although the meeting had to be abandoned because of time constraints, the ANC s former armed wing was willing to set aside its differences and meet with the group of former MK leaders. Even before their national council we had agreed to meet with them but it did not happen because our officials were informed rather late about the meeting. We are looking forward to meeting with them. We also want them to share with us their council resolutions. We can t have a divided MKMVA, Maphatsoe said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za