THE spokesperson for Gauteng Tourism, Barba Gaoganediwe, said Soweto is the benchmark that sets the standard for other townships.But he encouraged other townships not do what Soweto does, instead they should find what is unique in their own township.Townships around Gauteng, especially Soweto s popular struggle trail, are steeped in history and heritage but local tourists are not making these areas their first choice of sites to visit. Their priority destination seems to be coastal resorts.However, those who have ventured into township tourism, would say nothing beats the vibrancy and buzz of great townships such as Soweto, Sharpeville in the Vaal, Vosloorus in Ekurhuleni and Kagiso on the West Rand.The famous Vilakazi Street in Orlando West, Soweto, alone has enough activity and history to make it worthwhile for any visitor walking along the only street in the world to have housed two Nobel Peace Prize laureates, whose homes are in walking distance from each other.We are talking about Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu and the late Nelson Mandela first president of a democratic South Africa. Mandela s original matchbox home has been turned into a museum, where scores of overseas tourists queue to get in.Some of the many activities South African holidaymakers can enjoy in the iconic township is backpacking with self-proclaimed township pioneer Lebo Mapela s Lebo s Backpackers. The entrepreneur also has a guest house and lodge in the list of business endeavours he is involved in.He says the township is starting to see a lot more local tourists but they frequent events in the township like the recent Soweto Marathon.He complained, however, about the lack of innovation or different concepts in the townships tourism business saying there is a lot of repetition. If there is a restaurant, everybody wants to do a restaurant. If there are bicycle tours everybody wants to do it. We are limiting our offerings. I think (we need) more sport entrepreneurship. The government or stakeholders should also ensure there are opportunities for people who want to be guides. We need tour guide schools. You will recall Gauteng had township programmes which focused on infrastructure upgrades including the living conditions. In the process, as you establish infrastructure in townships, you are creating a network that will make it easy for a tourist to explore what is there, he said.Gaoganediwe said townships across the province had activities that domestic tourists could do, including visiting a variety of heritage sites like the Solomon Mahlangu Square in Mamelodi, places like Alex, Daveyton, Kagiso and Mamelodi continue to enjoy the growth of domestic travel because they also harness some of our best heritage sites. Young people must take advantage of the growing creative art sector in townships, he said, saying there were practical examples of activities that the youth in the townships around Gauteng are starting up, many of which are markets in Alexandra, Hammanskraal and Daveyton. Hopefully, these townships can be recognised as Johannesburg, which is set to be the most popular destination city in Africa for the fourth year, the 2016 Mastercard Global Destinations Cities Index says.While announcing the Index, Mark Elliot, division president, South Africa Mastercard said: Tourism remains an important driver of South Africa s economy, and the steady rise in visitor numbers indicate how the City of Gold s fascinating mix of iconic attractions is proving ever more compelling to today s international traveller. City of Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba said the strong numbers of visitors from our neighbouring countries shows Johannesburg is one of the continent s most important business, cultural and economic hubs.-HLONI MASHIGO