 The secret to running a sustainable and successful business, particularity for black entrepreneurs, is to invest back into your business. You are not going to drive the fanciest car in the first five years of your business. It just does not make sense. I am more broke now than I was when I was working for big companies. I have come to understand that running a business requires one to plough money back into the business before thinking about living the good life, award-winning brand strategist and communicator Sylvester Chauke says.Chauke is founder of innovative communications company, DNA Brand Architects.Established more than four years ago, the company has become one of SA s leading black owned communications companies responsible for some of the country s big name celebrities as well as corporate brands. These include Bonang Matheba and corporates such as Nedbank, Flying Fish, Vodacom and many others.With stand against bland as its driving force, DNA Brand Architects is a public relations agency and communications firm known for its out-of-the-box approach to marketing and communications and driving opportunities, particularly where the youth is involved.Small wonder then that under Chauke, the company has been recently recognised by the international Socrates Nomination Committee.Over the years, the success of DNA Brands has become synonymous with Chauke, whose enthusiastic communications specialist approach continues to in grow in leaps and bounds with each campaign he and his youthful team oversees.In just under five years, Chauke has won a sting of accolades.These include the coveted South African Premier Business Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award and the BBQ Young Business Achiever of the Year Award, not to mention the recent European Business Award.As if that is not enough, the Soweto-born entrepreneur is in the running for the South African of the Year Award, in the category best business innovator of the year, which he says is he thrilled to be part of. It is an incredible and an amazing feeling to be recognised, because as a young black businessperson you start a business with no intention of winning awards. It is something that only comes later in life. The first thing that keeps you going and motivated is to deliver on what the business hopes to achieve. But being recognised and acknowledged is a great but nervous feeling for me. The fact that this recognition is a global one is even more nerve-wrecking. I am still not sure how to celebrate it, Chauke told The New Age in a recent interview.Chauke, sometimes referred to as chief brand architect, was recently recognised for his innovative leadership skills by the international Socrates nomination committee for best enterprise with the coveted manager of the year award at an awards ceremony that took place on October 7 at the International Carlton Hotel, in Cannes, France.This coveted award recognises participants from 26 country partners in a bid to uncover contemporary leaders with outstanding and successful companies representing different countries across the world.According to the brief, businesses that make the cut are the kinds of businesses that have made a great contribution to national economies and have contributed to positive social processes.Not too shabby for the oldest member of the DNA Brand Architects, who at 35 years old, Chauke calls himself the pensioner among the members of his youthful team. Chauke employs 22 young creatives that make up DNA Brand Architects. Investing in the youth has always been part of DNA s core principles, Chauke quips. The wisdom of the old and the energy of the youth is what makes DNA unique and fresh as coming up with ideas is what our business is all about. As a creative-driven company, this is the only way we will be able to survive and continue to give our clients the best of both worlds. The space has to be conducive to fresh ideas and that what we always aim for, he said.It has not been all smooth sailing for Chauke and his team.Like many other young and black-owned business starting out, it has had to fend off stiff competition from many other agencies operating in the same space.There were times when having worked with big brands previously and before venturing into his own business, Chauke had to dig deep to be recognised as a business person in his own right rather than another head honcho for big name brands.Now in its fourth year, DNA has come to be known as a one of a kind agency that is changing and challenging norms within the communications and marketing space.With its philosophy being stand against the bland being its cornerstone, Chauke and his dedicated team has displayed an ability to evolve, challenge norms, conquer in a competitive business environment while ensuring individual growth for its personnel.The company has demonstrated its strengths by continuously disrupting the market with communications strategies. At DNA, we have always aimed high and punched above our weight because we understand that as a youth-owned business operating within this space our work needs to speak volumes and make an impact, Chauke said.The strategist stormed into ad-land at the age of 12 when he appeared in a TV commercial. Years later he made inroads into the fast-paced communications and advertising world after graduating from Rand Afrikaans University, now known as the University of Johannesburg.He went to make a name for himself after handling big accounts such as Nando s, MTN and many other big name brands in the country as one of the marketing gurus for Oglivy, DraftFCB and many other brand communications companies.However after years of toiling and doing the groundwork, Chauke defied the odds and decided to take the plunge and start his own business. The birth of DNA soon took shape, albeit at a slow pace. It makes so much sense for people to start their own business. However, people should guard against quitting their jobs to start their own businesses. The best way to start is when you are still employed. Once things settle, you are welcome to quit and focus on your businesses full time, Chauke said.Brand communication is not the only thing that fulfils Chauke as theatre, arts and music are some of his highly prized forms of keeping his mind working. I love dance. Theatre and art are also on the list of things that I value the most. I am also highly involved in theatre as board member of the Market Theatre as well as being a council member for the Department of Arts and Culture Africa Month celebrations.Having also worked for entertainment-based television brand, MTV Networks Africa, Chauke is also a big fan of music and enjoys anything from pop, R&amp;B, hip hop and jazz. I cant live without music. Music keeps me inspired and confident, he said.Last year, Chauke joined the South African State Theatre Board board as its youngest member, alongside big names such as Barbara Masekela, Tebogo Mphuti, Shamila Singh, Ayanda Vilakazi, Vincent Zulu, Nise Malange and Madile Mofammere.As part of his involvement on the board, Chauke is responsible for the strategic direction of the theatre, monitoring the relationships between management and stakeholders, which excites him a great deal.He, as part of the governing body, is also responsible for making any necessary important decisions and ensuring they are carried out. I have always been excited by the arts. Theatre is one of the things that after a long day is able to help me recharge my batteries and the space also allows me to make a difference, he said.As if all his accolades and achievements in business are not enough, Chauke recently became one of the faces of the popular, champagne cognac Remy Martin brand after it rolled out its first campaign in the country. Chauke describes himself thus: I specialise in creating magic for brands in a not-so-obvious way. I am a thinker, dreamer and doer. I am highly creative and have sold a lot of ice to Eskimos. My speciality is advertising and brand communication and strategy, design, PR, events and managing high performance teams. Siyabonga Sitholesiyabongas@thenewage.co.za