A group of concerned commissars and former Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) combatants believe their urgent national council meeting at the weekend would go a long way in mending fences in the ANC.Yesterday, former MK general Siphiwe Nyanda said despite strong opposition from MKMVA to the meeting being held, the council s resolutions would help lift the ANC out of its crisis. We ll do everything in our power to get all the resolutions we took, all the inputs and all the decisions we took into the ANC mainstream so that we make a success of it, Nyanda saidHe said the group of aggrieved veterans would now forge ahead on working with ANC stalwarts and veterans on their call for a national consultative conference. We re planning a national consultative conference and an ANC policy conference. We feel the decisions we took there will go a long way towards making progress. Nyanda s comments come against the background of the meeting by former senior MK commanders coinciding with the MKMVA 55th commemoration gala dinner. A war of words between the two MK factions had erupted in the run-up to the anniversary celebrations over MKMVA s honouring of former SABC chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng, former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe and SAA board chairperson Dudu Myeni, who were all conspicuous by their absence.Nyanda, making reference to ANC stalwarts and veterans shouldering support for the meeting, said their presence was welcomed. We appreciated their support and they like many ANC members are concerned about what is going on in the ANC and in our various structures. It was well received by the conference and we appreciate it. We are members of the ANC and we want to make everything a success. Meanwhile, speaking at the start of the MK national council meeting, ANC NEC member and MK veteran Joel Netshitenzhe voiced his concerns on state of capture and corruption. From the strange things happening at the Hawks, the NPA, Denel and so on to a Cabinet statement released by a minister which never was. Beneficiaries of corruption and state capture will not give up without a fight, he said.Netshitenzhe slammed the trend of ANC members rushing to be councillors in an effort to gain access to resources. It has a direct impact of corruption on the masses of our people. So when they respond in the elections, they are not theorising, it s what they actually experience, he said.ANC stalwart Wally Serote of the veterans group said talks of working with the former MK combatants on the national consultative conference were at an advanced stage. We can confidently say that we are doing that and it s imminent. MK combatants will come in their capacity as ANC members. We ll look at all the resolutions made so see how we can work together, Serote said.He said the stalwarts had a meeting scheduled with the ANC on January 3, where plans for a listening tour would be thrashed out. The visiting of zones, regions and provinces will be on the agenda. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za