THE death of three prisoners yesterday in one of the country s big five prisons, St Albans Correctional Facility near Port Elizabeth, has drawn attention to the challenges faced by prison staff at maximumn security jails.Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) has decried the dangerous working environment for correctional service officials and the department has acknowledged the challenges. We are irate over the failure to put into practice the measures aimed at ensuring rehabilitating inmates and the maintenance of a safe working environment for correctional officials happens, Popcru spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said.The union has blamed the Department of Correctional Services (DCS). They allege they have been ignoring the plight of the prison warders and other staff and instead have been focusing on the privatisation of correctional centres and putting out to tender most of it services.Mamabolo called on the department to implement proper strategies to deal with gangsterism. That can only be achieved by employing proper rehabilitation processes, notinstalling surveillance facilities which cost billions. According to the Department of Justice and Correctional Services, preliminary investigations revealed 33 inmates started attacking officials who were on duty in the facility that houses 5 000 inmates. The offenders who were carrying sharp objects and knives violently attacked officials. This led to an unfortunate standoff until reinforcements were called in. A total of 13 officials were injured, six critically. They were admitted to hospital. Three inmates lost their lives (one in our local prison clinic and the other two at the nearby hospital), the department said.According to media reports Modise said when asked about how prisoners had got sharp objects into the common area after supper, that there had been a serious breach, and investigations were underway .The department has since placed St Albans on lockdown and suspended all family visits to the centre. Deputy minister of Justice and Correctional Services Thabang Makwetla said they had launched a formal internal departmental inquiry, in addition to the SAPS own independent investigation. The ministry will communicate with the Judicial Inspectorate of Correctional Services, an oversight body at correctional facilities, to employ their services to ensure a factual account of the incident.-PETER RAMOTHWALApeterr@thenewage.co.za