WITH a career spanning more than 20 years, Theo Nhlengethwa needs no introduction to SA music fans. Entering the SA music scene as part of Boom Shaka back in 1993, he has seen it all as a group member and solo artist.He is one of the first house vocalists and has been featured in collaborations with house duo Revolution, gospel singer Deborah Fraser and DJ Clock, among others.From tasting success in the 90s with the members of Boom Shaka to becoming a depression-addled solo artist, the soft-spoken singer has been to the belly of the beast and back.But Nhlengethwa hasn t let this dampen his spirit; he is now making his long-awaited return to the spotlight with He s My Papa, a single that features Zimbabwean-born dancehall artist Buffalo Souljah. He s My Papa is an amazing and upbeat song that gives thanks to God,considering the journey I have had in my life. I had to do a song such as this one, Nhlengethwa said in a recent interview.The song has been playlisted on various gospel radio platforms and the singer plans to build from this success to commit himself to a full-length album soon. The song has the potential to be big and I m confident of that, Nhlengethwa said. I was toying with an idea to honour God in a song and immediately thought of Buffalo Souljah as I wanted a panAfrican element to be part of my connectionGod. I am practically experimenting with a new sound and was anna amazing experience to have collaborated with Buffalo Souljah. The singer says he has learnt a lot from current hip hop artists such as Cassper Nyovest, particularly when it comes to creating brands. We never took ourselves seriously as business people as the 90s generations, though the likes of Oskido paved the way.We as artists did not take advantage of that and only focused on our career, I must say, I am truly inspired by the latest generation of hip hop artists and what they have done with their careers. While Boom Shaka still manages to wow music fans with live performances of their 90s every now and again, Nhlengethwa says his main focus is to grow his individual brand, and that if a chance presented itself for a return of Boom Shaka that too would be most welcome . I just want to test my capabilities as a solo musician, he said. The good thing is that there is so much good music in our industry that it has become competitive. I do not remember when I last bought an American album. Our gospel, our R&amp;B and house music is in the right hands with the likes of Black Coffee, Cassper Nyovest and Dr Tumi, who are really doing some amazing work. It is such a great time to be a musician in SA at the moment. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za