The installation of power pylons near residential areas and businesses across the country has sparked outrage with some saying the power lines pose a cancer risk.There has been concern over power line radiation and its effect on human health for at least 40 years.Living close to power lines has been shown to increase the risk of leukaemia and other types of cancer since 1979.For that reason Alberton residents in Ekurhuleni are unhappy with Eskom s plans to build power pylons in the city.Resident Molly van Vuuren said they were against the move. I have lived here for more than 10 years and I think the changes are good for more electricity in the country. However, I do not think this area is appropriate and Eskom should not put it here if the residents do not want it here, Van Vuuren said.However, Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe said proper processes were followed. The power utility has previously disputed some of the residents health claims. As required by law, public participation meetings were held with the interested and affected parties in 2010, after which the Department of Environmental Affairs granted the environmental approval on April 6, 2011, Phasiwe said.He said the power lines were for the benefit of Gauteng as a whole and not only the residents of Alberton. The purpose of the project is to strengthen the network in Gauteng and increase the much needed capacity to meet the high demand of electricity in the province. The project is critical for Gauteng s economy, Phasiwe said.With many residents against these plans, Eskom has enlisted the help of Aurecon SA to do the negotiations on behalf of Eskom to acquire the required servitude rights. Eskom doesn t want to go the expropriation route as we want to have a good relationship with all the land owners, therefore it is seen as the very last resort to acquire servitude rights. Van Vuuren said the major concern was that the power lines would be close to houses and businesses.Residents have disagreed with these plans as they feel other arrangements should be made. I think it shouldn t be where there are so many houses, flats and businesses. There are so many other open spaces they could use, another resident said.Ekhuruleni spokesperson Themba Radebe said they were checking with relevant departments to understand the interaction that Eskom has had with all stakeholders on this matter. Normally when a request of this nature is made, the service provider would conduct a public participation process or an environmental impact assessment that allows the affected community to comment. Eskom would also need to apply to the relevant departments in the metro for approval. Eskom would be in a better position to indicate how far they are with the public participation process, Radebe said.Residents of Beaulieu Country Estate in Midrand took Eskom to court in 2013 as they felt they should have been consulted before pylons were erected.AVIWE MAXHEKEnews@thenewage.co.za