Air Mauritius, the national carrier for the idyllic Indian Ocean Island, has set its sights on growing its African tourism with new routes to Dar es Salaam and Mozambique, and more to come, according to Carla da Silva, Air Mauritius regional manager, Southern Africa and Latin America. Air Mauritius has increased its presence in Africa and is serious about doing business in Africa while connecting Africa and Asia. Air Mauritius flies to five different points in Asia and four points in India. It has established a strong presence in developing and emerging markets. Air Mauritius is going to be introducing further points in Africa shortly, she said.Da Silva said travellers on the continent were eager to visit the island because flying times are shorter than other destinations and prices more competitive with different markets being targeted. Traditionally, people visit the island for the beach, amazing sites and family recreation but apart from the leisure focus, she says there has been strong interest in corporate visits.Asked whether African nationals are hopping onto a plane to Mauritius, Da Silva said: Absolutely, the beyond Mauritius business has increased substantially. Mauritius has become a hub to beyond destinations such as India, China and Australia in particular. Due to its geographic location, the flights are shorter from Mauritius and the rates are extremely competitive. For example, Perth is only six and half hours from Mauritius and the business class fare is R24000 (all inclusive.) For long, Mauritius Tourism Promotion Tourism Authority has targeted breaching the 100000 barrier for visitors from SA but the past two years has been challenged for travel the world over, although some airlines have reported massive profits.Operations to Maputo and Dar es Salaam were initiated in May and the airline has increased flights to Madagascar to reinforce connectivity between Asia and Africa, adding another eight points to the Air Mauritius network in the African region.Buoyed at becoming the African carrier with the most direct connections to the Far East, Africa is high on the 2017 agenda. Da Silva said 2015 was indeed a challenging year on many spheres from the rate of exchange, inflation, economic and political climate to travel spending cuts. Despite the challenges Air Mauritius has managed to remain focused and achieve revenue growth. Yes Mauritius has remained a must-visit destination. The weaker rand and economic challenges have resulted in more competitive pricing in the market place and the consumer shopping around for more value for money packages or rates, Da Silva said. The business has increased from a corporate point of view, as well as meetings, incentive, conferences and events. Year to date figures are up both from a revenue and passenger numbers perspective. But SA remains a key target for Mauritius, being the fourth and sixth highest revenue generator for Air Mauritius in terms of passenger numbers and revenue, respectively.Da Silva said SA has continuously registered double digit growth year on year since 2012, growing by 39% from R264m to R366m in 2015, with the goal to end the 2016 financial year with R400m. On how are the routes into Africa are doing, she said: It s early days, Tanzania has certainly picked up. Maputo has been slow but it is also picking up. While new routes being planned are confidential, Da Silva said the airline plans to continue its growth and expansion strategy next year with more frequencies into Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singapore the air corridor strategy hinges on Mauritius and Singapore hubs, launched March 11, becoming a bridge between Africa and Asia.What happens in Mauritius? Tourism is one of the key pillars of the Mauritian economy and began in the 1950s with around 1500 visitors. Currently, the island attracts nearly 1.2 million visitors. Family holidays, including self-catering stay overs in children theme parks, with two children under 12 flying free on Travel Smart package. Weddings are big in this paradise with the airline offering 20% off the bride s fare for honeymooners (what about the groom?). Meetings, conference venues with growing number of corporates opting for island brainstorming sessions or team building. Sights and attractions aplenty, with festivals and religious places of interest across all faiths.-EDWIN NAIDU