AS THE old clich goes, the more things change the more they stay the same. Could this be the case with Orlando Pirates? On the evidence of the past few weeks, the maxim certainly holds true for the Buccaneers, who appear to be going nowhere slowly. Although they appeared to be making progress in the post-Muhsin Ertugral era, Pirates find themselves where they were a month ago. Augusto Palacios changed the course of the ship, sailing it past choppy waters and onto a new path with a new purpose.But performances in recent matches suggest the team hasn t made much ground since Ertugral abandoned ship in early November. Their league standing remains the same, hovering between sixth and fifth place. None of the changes have made a real impact on the overall performance and everyone still looks to free-scoring striker Tendai Ndoro for victory.Ndoro scored a brace as they slumped to a 2-2 draw against Highlands Park at home, the two goals proving insufficient for a win. To put this into perspective, Ndoro has contributed 11 of the 13 goals Pirates have scored in the league this season. Just as they went to sleep at the crucial moment against Baroka in midweek, the Buccaneers conceded with 10 minutes to go against Highlands Park. And Palacios has started to sound more and more like Ertugral. We are missing chances, Palacios said. My main worry is that we practise finishing every single day. When it comes to the game, it s a different situation. We create chances but are not scoring from them and this is the main problem because 1-0 is nothing, 2-1 is nothing, we need to score more and we need the confidence to say we are going to win 2-0 or 3-1. It s a disappointing result not to get three points but we re getting closer. After these games we should have had 20 points. We have another game (in hand) and then we re getting closer to the top. Even though Palacios s rotation policy hasn t had a detrimental effect on the performance, it hasn t been effective either. However, he has continued to rotate his team, giving a run to peripheral players such as Thabiso Kutumela, Ntsikelelo Nyauza and Gladwin Shitolo. I think they deserved it, it s a long time some of them haven t played and I just hope we can continue in the way we played. kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha