Two initiation school owners have denied that they are behind the gang violence that has wracked Bophelong in Vanderbijlpark, but the community is convinced that the initiation schools are fuelling the violence.Two men were hacked to death in gang-related violence in extensions 10 and 5 early in November. The community then accused the illegal initiation schools of breeding the gang rivalry that has resulted in the deaths.Pictures of the hacked and bloody bodies of the deceased, 17-year-old Diamond gang leader Teboho Molakeng from Extension 6 and Mopheme gang leader Mpoho Elias Kgaule, 23, of Extension 14 were circulated to ANN7 and The New Age by concerned community members.When ANN7 visited the areas fingers were pointed at the owners of initiation schools for fuelling violence between the two gangs.They accused the initiation school owners of kidnapping the boys and not only initiating them into manhood but into a gang.On a follow up visit, a young man, who does not want to be identified, reiterated this accusation. He blamed the gangs and said they worked with the initiation schools.He was kidnapped and forced into an initiation school by the Diamond gang. I was with three of my friends, he said and that they were approached by the gang. One of my friends tried to stop us, but they fooled us and said we should not listen to our friend because he knows nothing. The man was rescued from the school after his mother intervened, but now lives in fear because he was told to report back to the school in early December. My son went missing for four days. When we found him he was at an initiation doctor, the mother said.She demanded to know from the initiation school doctor how her son came to be in his school and was told the child came to him .He also said he did not know the Diamond gang members who brought her son to them.Another mother Philisiwe Hlatshwayo, whose son was also kidnapped, said she was surprised when her child did not come home. He is not the sort of child who would not sleep at home, she said.But the initiation school owners deny the link. Because kids go missing, it is not because of us, initiation school owner Thembile Ngconqca said.He said that parents needed to sign consent forms and those that came without consent forms are encouraged to attend the schools through peer pressure.Bheki Muzi agreed they were not the ones involved in turning the young men into gangsters. Gangsters are playing their part in recruiting the boys, Muzi said, saying that some boys have the wrong mind set and use weapons when threatened.The unnamed mother, however, is not convinced and wants immediate action and government intervention. Honestly, this initiation thing doesn t sit well with me, she said.The Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities has proposed that initiation schools be subject to legislation which would regulate safety and governance issues and would give the authorities the ability to monitor and ensure that children were only recruited with their parent s consent.Lungani Mnguninews@thenewage.co.za