Real power at the SABC did not sit with then acting CEO Jimi Matthews, but with chief operating officer (COO) Hlaudi Motsoeneng who had an office on the 27th floor of the broadcaster s Auckland Park offices.He derived his authority from the memorandum of incorporation introduced by Communications Minister Faith Muthambi. He used his power to bring in the State Security Agency to investigate staff.Under him, fear permeated the SABC, Matthews deferred to him and he could summon executives and senior staff members to leave their meetings for an audience with him.Motsoeneng also declined to be vetted, because, as he put it to then head of human resources, Jabulani Mabaso, the SABC board had not been scrutinised.Accounts of the iron grip that Motsoeneng had exercised over the SABC were given at the parliamentary inquiry into the fitness of the board yesterday.Members of the ad hoc committee conducting the inquiry at times listened incredulously as Mabaso and, before him, former general manager of labour relations Madiwe Nkosi, told of Motsoeneng s reign.Mabaso, who left the SABC in June, disagreed with Muthambi s recent explanation for Motsoeneng being moved from the position of COO to that of acting group executive corporate affairs, while the holder of that slot, Bessie Tugwana, was switched to his berth. There is a notion suggested recently by (the) minister to say a position was set aside. Setting aside of positions was not provided for in policy. There isn t any policy that says you reserve positions. I want to clarify that, Mabaso said.Of the absence of a performance management system at the SABC, Mabaso said Parliament had asked for one, as had the communications minister. Accordingly, one was crafted and sanctioned by the board. When you tried to implement it, it was stopped. It never saw the light of day. When I left it was not implemented when we had everything ready. Everything had to pass the former COO. He refused to sign this, Mabaso said.Because of Motsoeneng s attitude, subordinates also refused to sign their performance agreements. Their attitude was if the boss does not sign his job description why should I? Mabaso said: I feel the board neglected their duty given the fact that they approved it in 2014. They should have cracked the whip. ANC MP Makhosi Khoza said about the kowtowing to Motsoeneng: There is something that is disturbing. We have all these brilliant people. How could all of them allow a man without matric to reign over the SABC? Can you shed some light on this? We need to know what is behind this. Mabaso replied: The man has said we overdose ourselves with education. I will point out everything to the board. It s easy to propel a person. When the memorandum of incorporation was changed, it gave him all the power to purge. For me they were unable to stop this charade. Of the fear and paranoia that pervaded the SABC, he said he used to discuss sensitive issues with colleagues in the staff caf . This fear that my colleague (Nkosi) was talking about we all feared. I would talk to my colleagues in the caf because you never know. You also are paranoid. Of the State Security Agency, Nkosi said: I have no clue (what they were investigating). They did their work under the guise of investigating the leakage. Asked if journalists and staff feared their telephones were being tapped, she said: Yes, particularly in the past year. This year. There is an atmosphere of paranoia even when people were talking, they thought they were taped. It s the people who are scared of being taped by the State Security Agency acting for Mr Motsoeneng. That s the feeling where the paranoia comes from. DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za