IT S that time of the year again when people are expected to take a pause from their daily grind to rest, reflect and plan ahead.This can ideally happen outside one s comfort zone and the appetite to visit new places becomes more pronounced. Perhaps this explains why so many people go on holiday at this time of the year.Like other holiday destinations, the North West offers more than enough gateway places that are a perfect repose to those whose batteries have been drained by the year s rigours.However, even for those who have every reason to celebrate, be it love, family and other success stories, the province is endowed with leisure resorts fit for such occasions.Through the A Re Yeng Bokone Bophirima initiative, the North West tourism department has reached out to African and international tourists to visit the province.The concept has been marketed in offshore markets like the UK, Germany and others and it has already seen success.While international and regional tourists bring the much needed foreign currency, locals have also been challenged to start visiting places of interest, starting in their villages.Through the recently launched Shapa Raondo mo Bokone Bophirima campaign, the department said it wants to see more people visit their own villages and communities.Tourism MEC Desbo Mohono said the new campaign seeks to promote festive packages throughout the province as provided by participating products to showcase the province as the preferred holiday destination of choice, to increase lengthy stay in North West and to ensure the local economy is boosted. The Shapa Raondo mo Bokone Bophirima campaign is part of the implementation of the domestic tourism strategy. Our aim is to make sure that our people in the North West should know about products on their door step. They will then become ambassadors of the province, Mohono said. We also want to lure people from other provinces to experience the beauty and the warm welcome by the people of the North West. We want to expose other hidden treasures within the province. In so doing we are sure that locals will know of tourism products in their periphery. The Shapa Raondo mo Bokone Bophirima (Make a Turn in North West) campaign is also geared towards marketing upcoming festive events such as the Mahika Mahikeng, DJ Nation and many other events taking place during this time of the year.The campaign will last for a month and will run in all four districts of the province. As department MEC, I will work together with well known artists from the province like Mo Molemi and Stoane Seate to continue to lead the tourism team throughout the festive season campaign. The province also seeks to maximise on the relationship between North West and Botswana residents, most of whom often spend their holidays in the province.Eight years ago, the province started a deliberate campaign to market its tourist attraction facilities to Botswana residents and the move is bearing fruit now.Indications are that Batswana residents have now made the North West their second home as they visit and spend time in the province during the holidays.Mohono said the department will not relent on its mission to make North West a destination of choice.Earlier this year, Mohono led a department delegation to Botswana s capital Gaborone, where they spent last weekend promoting the province s hidden gems.In the past eight years, North West has received money running into millions of rands through Botswana tourists.During the visit, the MEC and officials from the North West Tourism Board (NWTB) promoted the provincial government s villages, townships and small dorpies (VSTD) strategy. Our mission and vision is to improve the North West from No7 to No4 come the year 2020. Now we have realised that in order for us to arrive to that point we need to establish treaties with neighbouring countries and of course Botswana is just a stone s throw away. ELFAS TORERAI