Olympic Gold medallist Caster Semenya has reached a point where she no longer worries solely about winning awards, but does seek more local and international recognition.Semenya, who enjoyed an impressive year winning gold at the Rio de Janerio Olympics in August, feels she has all but fulfilled her dream by winning almost everything and now gets excited when she s recognised by members of the public.For her efforts this year, the 25 year old won the sportswoman of the year at the South African Sports awards.She was also nominated for the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) World athlete of the year award, but did not make the final three. I feel I have fulfilled my dream. If you are nominated in a category of the IAAF it s a dream come true, Semenya said. It doesn t matter about winning, we are all winners. At the end of the day, it s all about who achieved more. For me to be nominated was such a great honour and also for Wayde van Niekerk. Now we are going for the Laureus awards. It s not about winning awards, it s about recognition. There are lot of awards that we ve won. We had the Feathers Awards, MTV Base African awards, SA Sports award. I have been honoured at my university, a lot has happened. Next year will also be a busy year for South Africa s golden girl and she has already set her sights on the World Championships in London, the World Student Games in China and the IAAF Diamond League. It is not all about me, it is also about fellow athletes in Limpopo. It s all about appreciating their performance and what they are doing for the province. We feel proud to be from Limpopo and if we get recognition it does motivate us to do well and makes us want to do more. Semenya will start her preparations for a busy 2017 next week as she aims to win gold at several events. There is a lot which is going to happen next year and my focus is definitely on the World Champs, World Student Games and the Diamond League, we need to prepare for that. NEVILLE KHOZAnevillek@thenewage.co.za