Black squatter camps are a common sight around Gauteng but the rare sight of a white community living in makeshift homes has ceased to raise eyebrows in Munsieville.About 75 white families were evicted by the Red Ants for illegally occupying Coronation Park in 2014. Now they are living in shanty squatter camps in Munsieville.Most of them are unskilled people who lost their jobs after the ANC came to power in 1994.With grants as their only source of income it is hard for some of them to sustain themselves.The whole camp uses two taps for water which was supplied by the municipality and two houses share one toilet on a bucket system.Their main challenge now is the lack of sponsors because while living in Coronation Park they used to have many sponsors, some of whom have been lost due to the move.Irene van Niekerk, who stays with her husband and children, said that she had been looking after the community for 12 years since the days in Coronation Park. My first priority is the kids, old people then adults, I wish all these people could get proper houses and sanitation, with running water and also hot water. She said that they had to make fires with wood to get hot water. We moved here two years ago from Coronation Park when we were evicted by the Red Ants. In Coronation Park we did have a better life because there were sponsors who used to bring food and stuff for us. Here there are fewer sponsors, maybe they are afraid to come to Munsieville. But the community here don t do any harm, they look after us. She thought someone might have told people the place was dangerous.The community is sponsored by the South African Family Relief Project which comes every month to supply food.An independent charity visits on the 22nd of each month to give them foodAmong Irene s children is former star athlete Irene van Niekerk Jnr who put her career on hold when she fell pregnant.Irene junior, who became well known after her story was published in the media, has won 32 gold medals in school and provincial tournaments.Her mother said she hoped her daughter would start training and return to running again. I am hoping that she will go back to training and prepare for the 2020 Olympics She says she gave up everything to come and look after poor people.Another mother, 25, said that it was not easy to stay in a squatter camp especially if you had kids. People might think it s easy but no, it is not. I am hoping to get a proper home for my children, she said.The people in the community said that the government had been promising them houses but had not delivered. Since last year they have been promising RDPs, we are still waiting for them to deliver. Van Niekerk said most people tended to think that because they were white they were lazy. We are not lazy to work there is no space for people like us in the corporate world. Sometimes we work for people and they don t pay us, they expect us to work for free. People here are poor and there is nothing for them. We have no food, they come once in a while and I share with everyone here, Van Niekerk said.DIKELEDI RAMABOPAnews@thenewage.co.za