Teboho David Molorane from Botshabelo near Bloemfontein was an orphan who ended up on the streets, hungry and eating from dustbins.Today, the youngster who said he was born without opportunities in life declared he hated poverty so much that he has dedicated his life to the service of young people in the townships fighting poverty on behalf of children from poor families so they never end up on the streets like he did.Molorane is the founder of Botshabelo Children s Safety Centre and Community Development which looks after 130 children.He is heavily involved in helping to save the township from gangsterism and poverty.Some of the children come in on a daily basis for meals only.The centre also offers various sporting codes where kids can practise daily and hosts other activities such as beauty pageants. I hate poverty. I opened this centre to save children from poverty because I believe that it is not a barrier to success, Molorane said. I grew up without parents and we could not even afford to buy electricity and before we could cook, we had to go and fetch firewood. So I do not want to see any child especially from Botshabelo suffer like I did with my siblings. Molorane said last weekend he held an awards ceremony where he handed certificates to 48 children who took part in the activities put together by his centre.These activities include football, netball and gumboot dancing. The certificate recipients are between the ages of five and 17, Molorane said. The centre is a non-profit organisation and I work with sponsors to make sure we meet all the needs of the children. To award them certificates, we also motivate them that they do have talents and they can make a living as well as not feel undermined because they are from needy families. Molorane said the centre was created to challenge his biggest enemy called poverty. Poverty is not a barrier to anyone who has a vision and goals in life, he said. I feed about 200 children in Botshabelo and more than 300 in Cape Town where I started the centre more than five years ago. Molorane, 35, also plays a big role in his gang-ridden township by taking kids off the street and giving them food and sports equipment. I stayed in the streets for many years and I nearly committed crime but loyalty to yourself is a key to success as long as you know what you want. My advice to fellow youth is that never let suffering push you to commit crime because you will end up being in jail. Rather plan what you want to be, Molorane, who has also adopted two children, said.He has requested assistance to help fund other sports projects. He can be contacted on 082 0908660 or 078057 2017, or email botshabeloprojects@gmail.com Or you can visit his Facebook page Teboho David Molorane.beckers@thenewage.co.za