A woman is due to appear at the Pinetown Magistrates Court after she left her new born child in a taxi at the Pavilion taxi rank. The women, 37, was arrested on Tuesday by the Pinetown Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit at Embo area near Hillcrest. Captain Nqobile Gwala said that the detectives were investigating a case whereby on 2 December 2016 a new born child was left in a taxi at the Pavilion taxi rank. &#8220;The taxi driver went to his taxi and suddenly heard something which sounded like a crying baby. He looked in the taxi but he spotted nothing unusual, but the noise persisted and he looked again under the backseat he saw something wrapped with the blanket. A closer look revealed a young baby wrapped in a blanket with a hand written note on top as well as the medication. The child was in a bad state, the eyes had swollen and the nappy had not been changed&#8221; said Gwala. The taxi driver alerted the police and the child was immediately taken to hospital for medical attention. The mother of the child had left a letter written in IsiZulu stating her reasons for abandoning the child and the police felt it was a hard case to crack. Gwala said it was a hard case to crack because there were no witnesses and the note left with the child did not reveal much about the mother. However, the police were able to track her down based on the medication she left on the scene. &#8220;From the medication left with the child the detectives ascertained that the medication was issued at St Marys Hospital in Marrianhill. Further investigation at the hospital did reveal much about the mother s personal details, she had registered an incomplete residential address and did not leave her cellphone number&#8221;, said Gwala. Gwala acknowledged that hard work put by the detectives to find the mother even though they faced many challenges. &#8220;It took painstaking investigation, lots of hard work, long hours and sheer brilliance from detectives in trying to locate the suspect&#8221;. KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa showed gratitude towards everyone that helped with the investigation. I would like to send my appreciation to Pinetown Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual for gathering all the evidence that led to the arrest of the mother, Langa said.&nbsp;-TNA Reporter