Government health facilities have circumcised more than 3 million males since the launch of the medical male circumcision (MMC) campaign in 2010.Department of Health spokesperson Joe Maila said their target was to reach 3.4 million people by the 2016-17 financial year. We are committed to achieving the target and therefore call upon all sectors of society to assist us not only in achieving the target but in reducing significantly the number of new HIV infections. We want SA to join in the fight against HIV and indeed build an Aids-free generation by 2030, Maila said.He said while they were satisfied with the progress of the campaign, their desire was that more men would take advantage of the service. MMC services are free in the public health sector. We believe that the MMC campaign is doing well. However, a lot still needs to be done to encourage men in this country to take up MMC. A lot of social mobilisation efforts must still happen. Maila said MMC is part of the prevention mechanism put in place to deal with HIV and STIs. It is not the only prevention mechanism available, the department is also providing free condoms and encourages people including those who are circumcised to use condoms all the time. Sister Valentia of Amcare said since the start of the free male circumcision programme in 2010, large numbers of people have come forward during winter. We have a busy period which starts in May up to July because people like to circumcise in winter. The programme is doing well and we are able to manage emergencies as well, we circumcise males from the ages of 10 up to 70 years old, Valentia said. We are doing well and we have a high turnover. People don t have to lose hours from work or take sick leave. We circumcise them and they go back to work the same day or the following day. In 2013, during the MMC launch in Piet Retief, then deputy president Kgalema Motlanthe said the target was to circumcise 1 million men in that year and 4 million men by 2016.Motlanthe said the launch of the campaign, coupled with the relaunch of the HIV counselling and testing campaign, would strengthen the country s massive HIV-Aids prevention effort.DIKELEDI RAMABOPAnews@thenewage.co.za