As South Africa s cemeteries fill up, property development group Calgro M3 Memorial Parks has seized the opportunity to cash in on the nationwide crisis.Calgro M3 s memorial park located in Nasrec, south of Johannesburg, charges R10000 for its least expensive grave, with the most costly selling for R50000. The graves are deep enough to fit three people, providing families with an alternative burial method.Also, the hefty price tag includes additional services that are normally billed separately such as burial opening and closing services, tombstone licensing fee and a once off contribution to the maintenance and security fund.The private memorial park has a park-like setting, characterised by trees, lawns, gently surging hills, beautiful dams and streams. It has two phases, with phase one expected to house about 21000 graves, while phase two is estimated to accommodate at least 11000 graves, adding up to a total of 32000 graves.Launched last year, the memorial park operations manager Kevin Eidelman said the idea to venture into the burial industry came after property developers had parcels of land that could not be developed into residential areas and realised a demand for burial space. Our aim is to provide dignified burial space that s aligned to our business model and supplement the municipal cemeteries, Eidelman said.Like in all parts of the world, South Africa is also confronted with a shortage of burial space, with cities the most affected. Johannesburg has 37 cemeteries, but only five are operational, while 15 of 31 cemeteries in Tshwane still operate.Combined, the remaining cemeteries of these two cities host an average of 729 burials each week, 490 in Johannesburg and 239 in Tshwane. Both cities have developed new cemeteries.Johannesburg City Parks, in charge of the city s cemeteries, has developed two cemeteries in the north of the city, with another one under development in the south of the city.Meanwhile, the city of Tshwane has developed two cemeteries, one in Klipkruisfontein and another in Tshwane north.Regardless, Johannesburg City Parks senior manager for cemeteries and crematoria, Reggie Moloi, said the city is considering alternative burial methods as solutions. City parks is thinking of cremation, reopening of graves, above ground burials (mausoleums) and recycling of graves as solutions Moloi said.Tshwane s acting mayoral spokesperson Lebogang Masooa said the city of Tshwane was growing its number of cemeteries. Both Moloi and Masooa encouraged families to consider other available burial methods when they have bereavements.However, Masooa said there is a need to educate and provide public awareness on these less regular options. People are also advised on other options for burials such as cremation and reburials though a lot of education and public awareness is needed to be implemented and emphasised, Masooa said.Even though the concept of a private memorial park is a relatively new in the country, Eidelman said they were making great progress. We have signed a deal with Constantia Insurance for a burial policy which allows the policyholder to be buried at a Calgro M3 memorial park. We have also been engaging with a number of funeral directors and we have so far received a positive response. We have also seen an uptick in burials as well. We have an average of six burials a weekend and we expect this number to grow substantially each week as more people are exposed to our product offering, Eidelman said.He further said there was a growing number of families buying graves up front. Moipone Tau, who has purchased a grave site up front, said she decided on the private memorial park because public cemeteries lacked space, privacy and safety. Avalon cemetery is full. People are now getting buried on the sidewalk, where they shouldn t be. There is also no privacy. You find 50 different families coming to bury their loved ones while the graves are next door to each other and everyone is simply singing their own tunes. The closeness doesn t give families the privacy they need. And also there is a lot of crime at Avalon now, Tau said.She said she was planning ahead so her family can avoid panicking about burial space when the day comes. Eidelman said they want to create a memorial park that they and their clients would be proud of today and in the future.news@thenewage.co.za