They come to South Africa in the hope of earning five times what they would back home. But exploited domestic workers from Lesotho find themselves at the mercy of unscrupulous employment bureaus who charge them and keep their passports until they get paid.This was what TNA s sister TV station ANN7 uncovered when it investigated the plight of several women forced to squat under a tree in Pretoria.Mampho Shili was bereft of hope when ANN7 met her.Fired on her day off via an SMS because her employer claimed that she did not treat the children with love , Shili was left with nothing. On my day off my employer sent me a SMS to say she no longer needed me and had sent my clothes to the agency. I owed the agency money. I had also left some money in my clothes but when I went to fetch them from the owner the money was gone, Shili said.Now without money, she was unable to pay the R500 she owed the agency for placing her.The agency, owned by Liz Thobela, allegedly refused to return her passport.ANN7, determined to uncover this web of exploitation and illegality, decided to confront the owner of the employment bureau, Thobela.At first, she would not let our team onto her premises, but with persistence finally allowed us in.There she admitted to charging the domestic workers a placement fee.Thobela said she had to go through a lot of logistics to place the workers. I have to make phone calls. Before, I would withhold their passports, she admitted, explaining that some people prefer nannies from outside .But she said when the domestic workers were ready to compensate her, the passports were returned.She returned the passport to Shili in front of the ANN7 cameras without being paid the R500 fee.But this is not an isolated incident and other Lesotho domestic workers corroborated Shili s story.Dikeledi Tsholo said her agency demanded R200 and took her passport. Coming from Lesotho I did not have money, I borrowed the money to come to South Africa, Tsholo said.On top of that, each month the agency took a portion of her pay.Dejected and living under a tree it looked like, unlike others who would go home for the holidays, she is destined to spend Christmas here.She said that in order to get a work permit she needed a letter from her employer but employers, reluctant to legitimise the workers and pay the minimum wage, would rather fire them.This is what happened to Tsholo and, unable to pay the agency and left without a job, she had no option but to join some fellow compatriots under the tree.Angry about her plight she said that the agencies paid the workers between R1500 and R1800 for working for large families and big houses. We work until Sunday with no fixed hours, Tsholo said. She (the madam) leaves early in the morning while I am carrying her baby on my back. And while I clean, the baby is still on my back. Even as the mum returns. Department of Labour spokesperson Mokgadi Pela said the department was aware that foreign domestic workers were being exploited.He said they had bust an agency in Soweto where the workers lived on the premises and their passports were taken. Employing foreign nationals in particular, in most instances would undermine our labour laws. In the area of minimum wages plus conditions of employment people from other countries are more likely to accept lower conditions and lower wages, Pela said.Lesotho high commission official Sephei Sekese said in the past Basotho men had come to South Africa to look for jobs but now women had joined the throng of migrants.Of particular concern was that in order to access the Lesotho Special Permit, bosses needed to issue letters of appointment.When these were not forthcoming the workers were stuck and therefore easily exploited.JUDITH DIAKANYOnews@thenewage.co.za