A 25-YEAR-OLD man, arrested after he allegedly fleeced people of money claiming he was Premier Supra Mahumapelo, will spend the New Year behind bars.This comes after the Mmabatho Magistrate s Court denied him bail on Wednesday.Thato Hengani, 25, was arrested by the Hawks on Saturday in Kuruman in the Northern Cape.Hengani faces charges of fraud. It is alleged that Hengani pretended to be Mahumapelo and he would call unsuspecting people to solicit money.Hawks provincial spokesperson Capt Tlangelani Rikhitso said: The suspect would allegedly phone people pretending to be the premier, tell them concocted stories and subsequently ask for monetary assistance which he specified was to be issued via e-wallet. In other incidents, the suspect allegedly claimed to be the son of the former Botswana president and continued to ask for monetary assistance from people. Rikhotso said that at some point, the man threatened violence if his demands were spurned. Upon realisation that his tricks were not getting the intended results, the suspect then allegedly threatened to bomb the premier s house, if he did not get the money that he requested from the security manager of the premier s office. The Hawks conducted thorough investigations and the suspect was traced and arrested. Two cellphones which he used to commit the crime have been seized, she said.The fully packed court was attended by government representatives, top police officials and prosecution bosses. Provincial government spokesperson Brian Setswambung said they hoped justice would be served. We look forward to January 4 and as the provincial government, we hope justice will prevail. We are interested to know what prompted this man to act in the way he did and perhaps the people he worked with, he said.Setswambung said there had been sustained efforts to misinform the public on issues around the premier and this matter could help resolve some of those issues. Remember there were rumours that Premier Mahumapelo had died and numerous incidents where a cloud has been created around the person of the premier. It would be interesting to see how the court will unravel the subplot when the court sits on January 4, he said. However, Hengani s lawyer Pitswa Modise, said the fraud charge would not stick against his client.He said that earlier charges of conspiracy to commit murder and intimidation had been thrown out after he poked holes in the state s case. The fraud charge is yet to be verified and this involves R3 500 alleged to have been swindled from people. All other charges had no evidence to back them up hence they fell away. We are waiting to hear what they say on January 4 though, he said. Hengani hails from Kuruman and before he was arrested, it is alleged he called people in several provinces including Gauteng, Western Cape and Eastern Cape saying that he was Mahumapelo and he would demand they help him with money.A number of people reported they had been contacted by a person claiming to be Mahumapelo, leading the provincial government to open a case with the Hawks.ELFAS TORERAI