Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has given the DA a free speech on democracy, explained the proposed national minimum wage, and also expressed his gratitude that ratings agencies have not downgraded South Africa.In his last appearance in Parliament for the year, he spent the afternoon answering questions in the National Assembly yesterday.Ramaphosa was asked by the leader of the DA Mmusi Maimane if, given what has since happened recently, would he have voted differently in the no-confidence debate.He said: If the matter is discussed here and it s not agreed to, you must accept that there is a concept called democracy. There is a democratic decision that has been taken. If you put a matter on the table and it is not successful accept the decision of the majority. That in itself does not mean anyone of the executive should not be accountable in Parliament. Members of Parliament, Ramaphosa said, were all elected as representatives of the people. We are accountable finally to our people. Our people decided we should be configured in the way we are. And if a decision does not favour you, you should not cry and say no why did it not favour me. That is a democratically arrived at decision that is my answer. Democracy rules and one must accept it. On the proposed national minimum wage, he said that the recommended monthly amount was not a living wage. Once implemented it will improve the position of lowest paid workers presently. It will be a radical shift with regard to addressing the issue of wage inequality in our country. Ramaphosa said that between 6.5 and to 7 million South Africans earned less than R3500. Labouring on what I would call wage poverty. It should be seen as a launching pad to improve wage inequality in our county. It will assist in reducing poverty. What the panel has done was to craft a balance between not having a minimum wage that is too low or have it so high that you end up destroying jobs. He said there would be an announcement about the national minimum wage by end of the year or early next year. Afterwards the bill would come to Parliament. We expect that from July we will get companies to start implementing it. Business would be given a period to adjust, and were expected to get ready in 2018, because the national minimum wage was due to be implemented from 2019.On the ratings agencies and their decision not to downgrade South Africa, Ramaphosa said South Africa was probably the only country that had engaged these agencies as robustly as it did. These agencies spoke to many people, including those who were against the government. In the end they were able to get a plethora of views of where South Africa is and where South Africa is going. In the end they were able to give us a rating which is above junk status. We still remain an investment grade country. We are pleased with that, he said.He congratulated all involved. South Africans put their best foot forward .On the political climate in South Africa, Ramaphosa said: When we engage with ratings agencies most of them did say that clearly the political noise that s in the atmosphere is something they notice and see. In the main they say what we credit you South Africans for you are operating within the parameters of the rules you have. We notice that in the end that is not the main consideration that we have in mind when ratings come. He told his questioner the ACDP s Steve Swart: I d like you to take comfort from what I take comfort from: in the end the political noise that they observe is not their main consideration. DENNIS CRUYWAGENdennisc@thenewage.co.za