Aggrieved former MK members yesterday defended their decision to bypass ANC internal structures and processes in an effort to generate ideas and solutions to challenges confronting the party.Speaking on the outcomes of an urgent national council meeting convened by the group of aggrieved veterans, MK senior member Thabang Makwetla said the former MK veterans met outside the ANC s structures due to the narrowing of political space within the ANC for its members to air their grievances. It is an indication that there is stress within the organisation. This suggests that the responsiveness of leadership organs to some sentiments within the organisation is not adequate, Makwetla said.He said that consequently, their decision to convene a council meeting at the weekend was not divisive, but a healthy phenomenon . When pressure builds up and there is no outlet provided for in a normal way in which things work, that pressure will be released through other means. When that happens, it contributes to the finding of solutions within the organisation, he said.Makwetla s comments were a response to ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, who recently said that the group s meeting did not enjoy the status and right of an ANC event as it happened outside party structures.Makwetla slammed the lack of accountability within the leadership of the ANC, which he said is why veterans took it upon themselves to intervene. We don t want to mince our words. We are very clear that we are seeking an immediate end to political interventions and positions that are not accounted for. That in itself is a problem because it contributes to an environment in which a lack of accountability is the norm. You ll appreciate that it is our direct responsibility as former MK members in the ANC to make it a point that the community of former MK members assist the leadership of the ANC in responding to the challenges of the day, Makwetla said.Former MK general Siphiwe Nyanda voiced his oppositoin to slate politics, which he says has come to characterise the ANC s election processes. The issues of slates is where people exclude capable leaders because they don t belong to particular groups. The engagements with the ANC will be about those things, to eliminate what we see as a very harmful practice which leads to further divisions, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za