French corporate yoga trainer Anne-Charlotte Vuccino has put together a book that presents 65 movements focused on different parts of the body, which combine seated yoga stretches and postures with controlled breathing. Here is a selection of five of the exercises that can help dispel tension accumulated during a day at the office.Soothe your eyesA day spent staring at a computer screen is a taxing ordeal for the eyes. Taking regular breaks helps to relax eye muscles and avoid dryness. The exercise proposed by Vuccino: in a seated position and without moving your head, move your eyes as though you are following the outline of giant letters of the alphabet. Do this once for capitals and again for lower case letters. Then keep your eyes closed for a few moments while breathing deeply.Ease pressure on your shouldersTo relax back muscles and combat hunching, perform a series of cat-cow poses which will alternately stretch your shoulders and lower back. In a seated position with your hands placed on your knees and as you inhale, rock your hips forward, raise your breastbone and lengthen your pine while raising your head. Then, as you exhale, rock your hips backward, allow your middle back to move backwards and then lower your chin towards your chest. Then repeat for a total of five series. This exercise is ideal for shoulder blade pain, feelings of stiffness and a good way to encourage better breathing.Revive your wristsLong sessions of typing on a keyboard can lead to stiffness in the wrists, hands and forearms. This sleepwalker exercise stretches muscles and helps to prevent repetitive strain injuries. Hold your arms out in front of you and parallel to the floor. Breathe in while raising your fingers until your hands are at right angles to the floor and appear to be placed on an imaginary wall. Then breathe out while moving your fingers downward until your palms are facing you.Relax your lower backThe pigeon pose relieves pressure on the lower back and helps prevent sciatic nerve pain caused by too much time sitting down. Place your right foot on your left knee while pushing your right knee downward. Stretch your spine upward while breathing in. You should feel your right thigh stretching while keeping your buttocks flat on your chair.Boost circulation in your legsRegular hourly breaks can help you avoid the negative effects of too much time spent sitting down, but you can also stimulate blood flow in your legs while remaining at your desk. While breathing in, raise your right leg until it is parallel with the floor, then move your toes towards you until they are pointed at the ceiling. The goal is to hold this position while breathing in and out ten times. Then repeat the exercise with your left leg. The boot-licking pose can be used preventively or feelings of heaviness and fatigue in your lower limbs.-Relaxnews