Transport for Cape Town will extend the operating hours of the MyCiTi bus service during the festive season.Hopping onto a MyCiTi bus for shopping, going to the beach or celebrating New Year s Eve would be more convenient than using private vehicles, the city said.Cape Town is approaching the busiest time of the year with tourists and local fun seekers visiting the beaches, shopping centres, Table Mountain, coastal areas and other popular destinations. Those driving around the city will have noticed the increase in traffic already, mayoral committee member for transport Brett Herron said. With the weather improving and the start of the festive season only a few weeks away, we expect the number of visitors to increase significantly. I want to remind residents and visitors that the MyCiTi service operates a number of routes to our local beaches and places of interest such as Table Mountain and the V&amp;A Waterfront. Visitors are encouraged to opt for the MyCiTi buses, which offer a convenient and scheduled service. Part of winding down is not having to drive yourself and to search for parking. I thus advise our locals to give the MyCiTi service a try. Why hassle with congested roads when the buses on the inner-city routes will drop you off within walking distance of your destination? The city will also extend operational hours of the bus service on routes to shopping centres and on New Year s Eve. The MyCiTi service will operate later than usual to accommodate those who want to do late-night shopping at the V&amp;A Waterfront and Canal Walk, Herron said. Additional trips will be added after 9.30pm as from Friday December 2 until Thursday December 23. We will also add more buses on routes to and from the popular beaches on December 16, 25, 26, 27 and 31, as well as on January 1 and 2. I want to urge beachgoers to rather park in the vicinity of the Civic Centre station in the central business district and take a MyCiTi bus to Sea Point, Camps Bay and Hout Bay. Those wanting to make use of the MyCiTi service must please remember to buy a MyConnect card and load Mover points on their cards as we do not accept cash on the buses. Tatenda Chiriseri