Cosatu is gearing up for its response to the proposed R3500 a month national minimum wage when a National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) committee of principals (CoP) meeting sits on Thursday.Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini said that after going back to gather its thoughts on the proposal made by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa s appointed panel of economists, the trade union federation would express its views on the offer, which fell short of Cosatu s demand for a national minimum wage of R4500. It s a significant meeting for us because we will be giving our full response to the proposal but the researchers proposals were not a decision of the negotiating parties. Researches don t negotiate with us, it is us who will make a decision. Dlamini said that although the trade union federation welcomed the panel s proposal, Cosatu has not agreed to the proposed wage. Cosatu has a mandate of between R4500 and R5300. We will negotiate at Nedlac on the matter. The CoP meeting comprising leaders of labour, business, the government and communities, including members of the advisory panel chaired by Prof Imraan Valodia, comes against the background of debates on South Africa s first national minimum wage gaining momentum.Dlamini hit out at criticism against Cosatu by its former leaders that it had thrown workers under the bus in light of the advisory panel s proposal. Cosatu has not agreed to R3500, we have not agreed to any proposal. We are also not going to be sidetracked by sideshows, people who are not at Nedlac who just want to shout. We are purely engaging on what workers want. The proposed R3500 is not a living wage, its a national minimum wage. Dlamini lamented that Cosatu had not being given enough credit for its contributions in getting the corridors of power in South Africa to sit around at the same table to discuss the matter. We were the only ones that have been campaigning for it before it was taken over by Nedlac. We lobbied the ANC to put it in its 2014 manifesto as part of a radical socio-conomic transformation programme.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za