WHILE in the past a vast number of female chefs had to fight widespread sexism to get the recognition they deserve, the South African culinary industry has been leading the way in propelling a new generation female chefs such as Siba Mtongana, Jenny Morris and Chantel Dartnall to leadership parity. Mtongana has been turning traditional South African favourites, which she calls Sibalicious, into a global sensation.Her show Siba s Table on DStv has garnered millions of viewers in more than 130 countries The queen of convenience , as the mother of three is often referred to in culinary circles, sees education as a key factor in ensuring that women prosper in the male-dominated field of professional cooking. The globetrotting cook has been able to juggle a demanding career with being a mother and wife. Without the exposure of four years in varsity, I wouldn t have had the skills and the knowledge of how to get into this industry job and prosper, Siba said. Explaining why one s sex has nothing to do with the real work of a chef, Jenny Morris laughs as she reminisces about how the industry was ironically not accepting of professional female cooks because they were expected to be at home with their kids while the men pursued their careers. Also known as the giggling gourmet , Morris is one of SA s most loved food personalities. This is contrary to the proverbial phrase a woman s place is in the kitchen because it never really applied then to the typically male-dominated culinary field, she said. My relationship with food is a love affair in the true sense of the word, one that employs all the senses. While she admits that the high-pressure environment still bears the image of the tough-talking, pot-throwing pedant, Morris says that in recent years more female chefs have been taking over the country s main commercial kitchens. There are great opportunities for young women in the food industry, Morris said. South African Chefs Academy tutor Lindi Gibbs shares the same sentiments.She says the academy has had more females than males enrolling for culinary programmes in recent years. We encourage our students to follow their passion, whether this be working in an already established kitchen or opening their own businesses, Gibbs said.Kate Schrire, owner of The Creamery,and Ayanda Nkosi, owner of Sesi Events and Catering, are examples of women excelling in the culinary field. The Creamery makes and sells natural ice cream from ingredients sourced from local family farms.Sesi Events and Catering a 100% female, black-owned event planning and d cor company in Gauteng and Mpumalanga provides a full array of catering services.SISANDA MADWANTSI