THE city s operation against illegal dumping, environmental hazards and other transgressions in metro hot spots has led to the issuing of fines for various transgressions to the value of almost R50000 since last week.The anti-dumping operation took place in hot spots across Khayelitsha, Kuils River, Mfuleni, Macassar and Eerste River as part of the city s fight against illegal dumping and environmental transgressions. Many of the areas bordered on nature reserves.The fines issued for illegal dumping alone amounted to R30000. The city s solid waste management, law enforcement, environmental resource management and health departments, along with Cape Nature, took part in the operation. Apart from taking action to ensure that transgressors are punished, our operation was about promoting education and awareness and intervening in specific areas to prevent further environmental degradation. In addition, illegal dumping and other contraventions have a direct effect on our communities and it is often the most vulnerable residents who pay the price. Frankly speaking, the city does not have the financial or human resources to police transgressors every minute of every day, MMC for energy, environmental and spatial planning Johan van der Merwe said. We need to work together to prevent illegal dumping and other negative environmental actions. On average, illegal dumping costs the city more than R350m per year. The city said it provided a highly reliable refuse collection service 365 days a year. Additionally, with 25 drop off facilities across the city, there was no excuse for dumping waste illegally. The city has several solid waste drop off sites where waste can be safely dispose of at no cost. Those using contractors ensure the contractors dispose of waste responsibly, without damage to people or the environment, utility services MMC Ernest Sonnenberg said. What also happens is the blockages that occur as a result of illegal dumping cause sewers, drains and stormwater channels to overflow. It may even cause localised flooding. It is time law abiding residents stop suffering the consequences of decisions made by those who refuse to dispose of their waste in a safe and legal way. -TATENDA CHIRISERI