Despite hosting 249 events including the MTN8 football cup final, the Springbok Test against Scotland and the Afcon qualifying match between Bafana Bafana and Mauritania this year, Mbombela stadium still could not turn a profit.The 43 500-seat stadium generated an income of R11.15m, falling short by R2.42m to meet its operating costs.Stadium manager Roelf Kotze said the stadium had not generated sufficient net profit to cover the maintenance and operational costs and there is still a shortfall.As with several other stadiums built for the 2010 World Cup, the R1.3bn stadium has been running at a loss for a number of years. Last year it suffered an operating loss of R12.5m, after it made a turnover of R3m while operating costs came to R15.5m. In 2014, the stadium reported a loss of R12m to R14m.This means that ratepayers have been footing the bill to keep the stadium afloat.However, Kotze said the city regards the stadium as a community facility and in many instances important events are hosted with no profit in mind. If profit was the only motive, many events that have a strong community focus would not have taken place at the stadium. A strong balance is maintained between profit and community interest. The stadium has become one of the busiest in the country and there are a number of initiatives being planned to increase income, Kotze said.The stadium hosted 225 non-sporting events and the pricing of the events differed from R5000 for a small meeting to R350 000 for a three-day church conference. The amount we charge for the events differ. It depends on the size of the event Kotze said The stadium also hosted 10 rugby matches and 14 football matches. Kotze said they charge between R90000 and R110000. The cost to host a match varies depending on the number of spectators but the average cost for a small match is between R90000 and R110000. Income from larger matches are utilised to subsidise the losses on the small matches. However, Kotze said tenant clubs of the facility do not have to pay to use the stadium. A resident club does not have to pay to use the stadium. Income from ticket sales is used to cover the costs, Kotze said.Steval Pumas continue to be a tenant and until recently Mpumalanga Black Aces used the stadium as their home venue. Super Sport United has since taken over the stadium as their second home. The spokesperson for Mbombela municipality, Joseph Ngala, said the stadium was not a financial liability. After the world cup the stadium has continued to host a number of international matches that involve national rugby and football teams. The stadium has also hosted highprofile PSL matches, including three cup finals. On November 26, Mbombela Stadium was home to the Telkom semifinal match between Orlando Pirates and Super Sport United. Apart from football and rugbyrelated activities, the stadium continue to attract other events like rallies and conferences for churches and other organisations. provinces@thenewage.co.za