Respecting our elders should be a responsibility ingrained in every person if we want to restore a human and healthy environment in our society, 59-year-old Roy Ngxanga says.Ngxanga, whose life is dedicated to delivering chronic medication to the elderly and the disabled in his close-knit neighbourhood, loves his job.In respect of his care for the elderly, Ngxanga spends most his days visiting the old and sick in their houses, supplying them with medication from the local Bhongolethu Clinic in George.He juggles his daily schedule between attending to church matters, cleaning his yard and visiting the frail and the sick. It s something one has to do, to better the lives of our communities. My wish is to see all the elderly citizens regardless of race and colour being taken care of at all times, he said.Every morning Ngxanga, who also has difficulty walking because he sustained a permanent injury to his left foot after a tackle in a rugby match 37 years ago, is a common sight in the streets of George walking, up and down in the searing heat , carrying a bag containing medical supplies to the old men and women in the townships of Bhongolethu and Toekomsrus.The gentle, bearded man begins his day collecting medication from the clinic, before taking off to the homes of his patients which include the elderly and the sick. I am doing this out of love for old people. As young citizens we need to take care of the elderly. We are also getting there. I take this as a human way of life, that s how humans should live, he says smiling.Ngxanga says he drops off tablets and medicine to people who suffer from diabetes, TB, asthma, rheumatism and other ailments.Yesterday during an interview with The New Age, Ngxanga advised young people to join him in serving the nation in the campaign of treating the elderly with the appreciation, respect and dignity they deserved. Many young people are too busy and sometimes dismiss them and the contribution they have made to families and community. It s for us to thank them for their contribution. It s now our turn to repay their love and respect. The father of three said that he developed the idea after he noticed that elderly people had to walk long distances from their homes, sometimes in the heat or during cold and rainy days, to the clinic to collect medication. It s sad that old and disabled people have to walk long distances to the health facilities or clinics without any help. Spending time and helping out the elderly is the most wonderful thing one can do at least once in a while. In order for us to restore dignity in our society we need to begin showing love and respect to our seniors, irrespective of their colour and race. MPUMI KIVAprovinces@thenewage.co.za