Thousands of job seekers continue to lie their way into potential employment through fraudulent CVs and fake qualifications.A local background screening company bust 66 700 resum s with fudged information between January and October.Desperate candidates are resorting to fraudulent activities including forging qualifications, faking experience and inventing companies to land jobs in a tough local employment market.Managed Integrity Evaluation (MIE) has noted an increase in the number of candidates who lie about their qualifications.MIE spokesperson Jennifer Barkhuizen said candidates educational history had been identified as the most likely to contain discrepancies when compared to all other background screening checks.In 2015, MIE checked 478000 qualifications and found more than 70000 qualifications to be inconsistent or fraudulent. The Southern African Fraud Prevention Service (SAFPS) also warned job seekers that CV fraud was a criminal offence and that perpetrators could end up with criminal records. SAFPS stats showed that last year alone 1 751 cases of employee fraud had been listed on the organisation s Shamwari fraud database. MIE records reveal that qualification fraud is found across the board. We have identified that the sector recording the highest percentage of qualification fraud is the trade industry. This is followed by matric certificates, short courses of between six and 12 months and degrees up to four years, she said.Kate Wevell of Performer Recruitment said CV falsification was something they came across every day. We find that often on a daily basis we have to withdraw CVs from the process because someone would have lied, Wevell said.Barkhuizen believes newly matriculated candidates might be tempted to lie about their qualifications. The matric pass rate for 2015 was 70.7%, dropping from 75.8% in 2014. Many of the matriculants will be competing for jobs along with recently graduated students and unemployed South Africans so temptation to lie about your qualifications or results may be heightened, Barkhuizen said.HR practitioner Jonathan Ndlovu said those faking their CVs were mainly looking for lower entry-level jobs, although those seeking top positions had also been found resorting to fraudulent tactics. I ve found that most people seeking driver and waiter jobs take fudging information on CVs lightly. We ve had many cases where someone picks a friend s CV and submits it as their own. In some cases, they will add nonexistent experience, Ndlovu said.Ndlovu said criminal syndicates that specialised in forged passport and ID documents were now diversifying into the lucrative market of CV fraud. A fake matric certificate can be bought for R2000.The DA made claims at the portfolio committee for public service and administration that 640 public sector officials had misrepresented their qualifications.The Department of Higher Education warned prospective job seekers planning to lie about their qualifications that they were committing a serious act of fraud and that they could land in jail should employers choose to prosecute.The Minister of Higher Education Blade Nzimande has published the Draft National Qualifications Framework (NQF) Amendment Bill through which he seeks to establish a fraud unit, as well as strengthen the legislation to deal more directly with issues of fake qualifications. Once the bill is passed the minister will be able to publish the names of people and organisations which have attempted to provide fake qualifications or defraud the public, Busiswa Gqangeni, spokesperson for the department said.South African Qualifications Authority (Saqa) CEO Joe Samuels said concerted efforts to strengthen the evaluation of foreign qualifications to combat the misrepresentation of qualifications were being made. We have enhanced the Saqa Certificate of Evaluation to deter any form of misrepresentation activities. The body has also drafted a policy on misrepresented qualifications. When implemented, this policy will guide evaluation practice to combat all forms of qualification misrepresentation, Samuels said.There were 12 938 new applications received for evaluation of foreign qualifications from April 1 to September 30 and 65 were misrepresented.mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za