The festive season is not yet over but the province has recorded another high number of fatalities on the roads.As of December 26, a total of 58 lives had been lost after a corresponding number of accidents were recorded in the province.So far, 26 pedestrians have died. About 13 incidents involved loss of vehicle control, four cyclists have been killed, there have been eight head-on collisions and two accidents were as a result of tyres bursting.Some other accidents were caused by circumstances yet to be verified but mechanical faults in vehicles were a factor in some.During the same period last year, 75 had died.Community safety and transport management MEC Dr Mpho Motlhabane said that though there was a marked reduction, the number is still too high. It is not an exciting reduction at all, 58 people dying on our roads, it s too much. More worrying is that most of the people dying are pedestrians, Motlhabane said. This reflects an unrestrained conduct of our road users in general. If a pedestrian gets hit by a car, there are two people involved, a pedestrian and a motorist and both are road users. This is a clear indication of not using the roads wisely by our road users. It might be the motorist on the wrong side of the law or the pedestrian. However, the department, together with the SAPS and the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC), will never surrender in fighting this carnage. The MEC bemoaned the after effect of accidents. Today our roads are painted in the blood of our loved ones and this leaves us with pain because, as we speak now, someone is a widow today and one child somewhere is an orphan, Motlhabane said.He said that his department had partnered with the municipal traffic department, the RTMC and all other law enforcement agencies to increase visibility on all critical roads of the province. We have heightened visible policing in every entrance of our towns and increased traffic and police visibility on our roads but our people must also contribute to reducing these incidents by taking responsibility. As much as we try our best, we cannot be on every street or in every car that is travelling on our roads, he said. Motlhabane said those caught on the wrong side of the law would face the full might of the law. We will continue arresting those driving under the influence of alcohol, those who drive at high speeds, driving without a driver s licence, driving without fastening your seat belt and also unroadworthy vehicles will be impounded immediately, he said.The department recently created about 85 jobs after it employed young people to keep stray animals off roads. Stray animals have been causing a high number of incidents on our roads and we then saw fit to get rangers who will help us with these animals but besides that, we also continuously engage with our farmers and communities with the same issue and we are grateful that this is now bearing fruit.Now we would like to urge our motorists to be on the lookout for jaywalkers and further take the same plea to our pedestrians to avoid walking on the road under the influence of alcohol, he said.The MEC made an appeal to all road users to take conscious decisions to uphold safety measures so that everyone takes responsibility. Safety begins with me, with you and with all of us. Please take precautionary measures before leaving the house, practice road safety as you drive on our roads and be alert at all times, Motlhabane said.ELFAS TORERAI