There is some relatively good news for the South African economy as the business climate in November and building confidence improved, despite a disappointing 0.2% of GDP growth in the third quarter of 2016, compared with the revised growth of 3.5% in the second quarter.According to the South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Sacci), business confidence rose to its highest in four months in November, helped by improvements in new vehicle sales and manufacturing output.Sacci s monthly business confidence index (BCI) rose to 93.9 in November, its highest reading since August, from 93.0 in October. Positive monthly contributions to the BCI mainly came from real value of building plans passed, new vehicle sales and manufacturing output. Notwithstanding the volatility in the business climate, the present turnaround in the BCI could gather more momentum, the chamber said in the survey.During 2016, the BCI recovered relatively well up to July when the BCI reached 96.0 but then contracted to the 90.3 in September. The recovery of the BCI in October and November was achieved in a depressed domestic and global economy and harmful local socio-political diversions that unfavourably influenced the business climate.Further, Sacci pointed out that apart from notably local and international political developments that could affect the global and South African economy, business adjusted to the unpredictability of circumstances. Sacci economist Richard Downing said business flexibility partly contributed to the slightly improved business confidence of the past two months. Business continued to show determination and agility.The real business conditions were slightly better in November 2016 than in November 2015. The year-on-year financial climate remained positive with two of the six financial sub-indices that improved and one unchanged, Downing said. He added that South Africa has received reprieve by no further downgrades from all three rating agencies in their latest credit rating reviews, but that the negative outlook must be turned around in the next six months. The progress made by theTreasury with the participation of business and labour to recognise and assist to propel the economy forward, will partially restore credibility to the economy and may contribute to the recent momentum gained in improving business and investor confidence, he said. At the same time, the building confidence increases for second consecutive quarter in the fourth quarter of 2016 rose to 40 points, its best level in 12 months.This is 2 points higher than the level of 38 recorded in the third quarter. While these results are encouraging, weakness in the broader macroeconomic, especially the consumer environment, could hamper further improvement in the sector over the short to medium term, John Loos, property analyst at FNB, said._TNA Reporter|business@thenewage.co.za