There is little substance to the relations between Mexico and South Africa. Each maintains an embassy in the other s capital, Mexico City and Pretoria.Both are members of the G-20 major economies and the UN and involved in South-South cooperation and nuclear disarmament. Trade between the two is ongoing, but not extensive in either case. When it comes to international relations, Mexico s main focus has long been on the US. This relationship has become increasingly stressed since the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) came into force in January 1994 and merged the markets of the US, Canada and Mexico.While US workers often claimed Nafta would allow Mexicans to steal our jobs, it soon become apparent that the deal was more detrimental to poor Mexicans than to middle-class Americans. While Nafta aims to allow free movement of goods and services, it actually frees corporations from government regulations which create barriers to trade. It permits relatively unrestricted movement of money, capital, goods and services, but not people.Following the institution of Nafta, Mexico shifted from agricultural production to assembly manufacturing. US companies imported materials duty- and tariff-free for processing in factories near the border with the US, then re-exported them back to their countries of origin. US corporations also exploited Mexican labour, paying wages insufficient for workers to support a family. Mexicans began to migrate across the border in search of better incomes.The deal favoured American and Canadian business in other ways as well. Mexico began to import maize from the US, made cheaper by US support to agribusiness. Mexican small-farm agriculture collapsed and an estimated 1.3 million Mexicans were driven from their land. The flow of illegal workers to the US increased.Donald Trump s campaign promises to build a wall between the US and Mexico, deport undocumented workers and tear up existing trade agreements and impose stiff import duties made in various statements that were seen as threats to Mexico s national and economic security.Trump s victory caused the peso to plunge and sparked fears of an economic crisis in Mexico. Now as the president-elect who will take over from President Barack Obama next January, Trump or at least his advisers are beginning to moderate the hyperbole. Trump has had to rethink his threat to terminate Nafta. The benefits of the deal for the US and Canada far outweigh the benefits Mexico receives.Mexico is the US s second largest export market and third largest overall trading partner. Nearly 5 million US jobs depend on US trade with Mexico. Trump threatened to build a wall along the border to keep Mexican workers out and make Mexico pay for it and vowed to expel all Latino workers and undocumented migrants from the US. Labourers from Mexico have been an important part of US agribusiness since the bracero programme during World War II first allowed hundreds of thousands of migrant Mexicans to temporarily work on US farms.The programme was discontinued in 1964, but both documented and undocumented Latinos continue to work in industry, trade, agribusiness and the services industry in the US, often at lower wages than US citizens would accept. Net migration from Mexico to the US has dropped in recent years, but thanks to tougher enforcement on the border and a relatively stable job market, not to a better barrier between the two countries.Trump s promises to improve US infrastructure could put Mexico into a slightly better bargaining position on any renegotiation of Nafta.The Canamex (Canada-Mexico) corridor, limited to road transport, could also be used to facilitate pipelines, rail and fibre-optic telecommunications.Mexican president Enrique Pe a Nieto would like to see a modernisation of Nafta rather than having the deal scrapped. With $1.4bn (R19.4bn) in goods crossing the border each day, Mexico s economy is now inextricably bound to that of the US.Trump will have to do something. Refusal by Mexico to cooperate on trade, drugs and migrants could hurt the US.Officials in Canada meanwhile have plans to eliminate visa requirements for Mexicans, believing this will yield deeper ties between Canada and Mexico and boost tourism. We are very happy to welcome more Mexican tourists to this country and to accept the jobs that go along with that, John McCallum told the Canadian House of Commons in Ottawa. Of course we knew there were risks. There are risks when you do anything. What will happen to relations between the US and Mexico when Trump enters the White House? Even before his inauguration on January 20, he has started to renege on some of the promises he made during his campaign for the White House.Perhaps he has come to understand the reality of implementing those policies, in this and other areas of US foreign relations.Tom WheelerTom Wheeler is a commentator and former diplomat