ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe yesterday shot down murmurs of an imminent cabinet reshuffle.Speaking to The New Age yesterday, Mantashe said the rumours that President Jacob Zuma was planning to sideline his political opponents hard on the heels of an ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, where some cabinet ministers called for his resignation were baseless. There is no cabinet reshuffle, people are imagining things, Mantashe said. His comments came against the background of SACP 2nd deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila s comments at a memorial service of the late former president of Cuba, Fidel Castro, that Zuma should not use a cabinet reshuffle as a personal axe to grind about the fact that certain ministers called for him to step down.He said although Zuma had the prerogative as president to hire and fire ministers, he should not use his special privilege as a tool to purge his detractors in the ANC s NEC. It is not a tool to be used for patronage, to deal with comrades who do not agree with him. There is no reason why they should be dealt with, why should they be removed from positions so that tomorrow they must kneel before the president and praise sing him, Mapaila said.Mapaila, making reference to rumours within the ANC that a cabinet reshuffle was imminent, described the act as childish and misguided . He said a cabinet reshuffle against the background of members of the ANC s NEC criticising Zuma s leadership would be untenable. There have been calls by some of our comrades that there should be a cabinet reshuffle to remove some of the so-called ministers who differed from the president in the NEC meeting. There are no ministers in the NEC, they are NEC members and the NEC is not a monolithic body of one view. That s why they have been elected into that body so they can bring diverse views. Mapaila also said that in order for the ANC-led tripartite alliance to tackle the threat of imperialism, it had to root out corruption from within its ranks. We will not be able to fight against imperialism if we are not able to unite and fight the wrong inside our own movement. If we can t confront corruption for instance, the stealing from the state, which are the tools of transforming society, there s no way we can confront imperialism. Meanwhile, late president Nelson Mandela s grandson Mandla Mandela hailed Castro as a hero, friend and comrade . On the eve of the anniversary of Madiba s passing, the Mandela family pays tribute to a hero, friend and comrade. The death of Commander Fidel Castro is mourned by revolutionaries and ordinary people from every walk of life. Nelson Mandela acknowledged Cuba s selfless contribution when he visited Havana in 1991 shortly after his release. Years later, when asked to renounce his relationship with Fidel Castro, Muammar Gadaffi and Yasser Arafat, Nkosi Dalibhunga famously retorted, Do you want me renounce those who stood by us through our dark days? His death has deprived Cuba of a leader and the poor and downtrodden of a champion. On behalf of the royal house of Mandela and the entire Mandela family we salute the brave Cuban people in this tragic time of loss, Mandela said.bonolos@thenewage.co.za