Faith Muthambi has denied ever saying that President Jacob Zuma liked Hlaudi Motsoeneng, calling it a myth which became a legend.Answering questions before the parliamentary ad hoc committee yesterday Muthambi said her relationship with Motsoeneng was professional. I don t have any relationship with Hlaudi Motsoeneng. Ours is professional. She also denied that there was a link between the timing of the SABC s decision to stop airing violent protests and the flare-up of furious demonstrations in Vuwani, which is her constituency.She said there was no censorship policy at the SABC.Asked about having allegedly said, Baba (President Zuma) loves him , Muthambi said: I ve refuted that with contempt. I ve never said that. I never met board members alone. She rejected a question from DA member of Parliament Phumzile van Damme that Motsoeneng had bought her a house. I think this is a serious, malicious allegation. I ve had my house where I ve been living for years. Told that some witnesses had said in evidence that Motsoeneng was a law unto himself, she replied that this was never brought to her attention. None of them had come to me to say he was a law unto himself. I don t recall receiving any matter or complaint of Mr Motsoeneng becoming a law unto himself. She said she first became aware of the bonus Motsoeneng had been paid as a reward for selling the SABC archives to Multichoice when she read a newspaper report. I ve since written to the company secretary to give me a formal explanation. The chairperson of the ad hoc committee, Vincent Smith, warned Muthambi that if it was found that the crown jewels had been sold to Multichoice she would have to account to Parliament.Muthambi was asked why she did not ask SABC board chairperson Prof Mbulaheni Maguvhe to resign. This is a matter in purview ofParliament. I couldn t be seen as interfering in the process of Parliament, she said.On whether she would recommend that Maguvhe be part of a new board, she said: I think you are putting me in a difficult position. This person was appointed by the Parliament. I think at the end of the day I don t appoint board members. I think it is for this House to take a decision. Maguvhe still calls himself chairperson of the SABC board. But yesterday Muthambi said: There s no board as we speak. She urged Parliament to expedite the amendment of the Broadcasting Act. The Broadcasting Act the way it deals with removal of board members is cumbersome. There is a bill somewhere in Parliament on the removal of members. I would want to recommend to Parliament to finalise that bill. She said the mandates of acting managers were due to expire at the end of the month.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za