A mother who lost a daughter has bemoaned the abandonment of a bill that would have ensured that those found in possession or dealing nyaope are prosecuted.The bill has been sitting since 2013 and is seemingly forgotten while thousands of young South Africans battle with nyaope addictions. The failure to classify nyaope as an illegal substance is fuelling devastation in already impoverished townships. A lot of our children are addicted to this poison, the mother said.In North West, thousands of young people are getting rehabilitation at private treatment centres as they seek to shake off their addiction.The social development department has began a process to build state treatment centres, one in Taung and the other in Potchefstroom, to deal with the overwhelming number of drug addicts.Department spokesperson Petrus Siko said the government was paying millions towards rehabilitation and after-care efforts. We have many youths in treatment centres who are being attended to. Most of them are out of school and seem to have been hooked to the drug as a pastime. Children who live on the streets are also vulnerable to the drug and as it is, the province is having a huge problem, he said.Siko said that those who wanted to get rid of the addiction could approach the department for help. The department is paying for rehabilitation. Our social workers will also manage after-care programmes with those from the rehabilitation centres to make sure they do not relapse and find themselves back in the same old habit again, he said.Nyaope addicts turn to crime and steal valuables from their families to feed their habit that costs a measly R30 a sachet but users need several doses a day. Dealers are known to add all sorts of stuff and bulk up the concoction with dagga, antiretroviral drugs, heroin and even sprinkling rat poison at times.Dr David Bayever from the government drug control organisation, known as the CDA, said at least 15% of South Africans have a drug problem.Martha Dean, who buried her 24-year-old daughter Bonita in September, said a lot could be done from the government s end.Bonita died after a long struggle with drug addiction and her mother had to fork out R50000 in an effort to rehabilitate her. Bonita really struggled with drugs till the day she died, even when I tried to put her in rehabilitation centres it did not help, she said.However, the National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku defended the neglect of the bill saying possession of any ingredients of nyaope or wunga was unlawful. Once traces of illegal substances are established, we prosecute, Mfaku said.The department of social development spokesperson Thebe Mohatle said they were concerned with the broader challenge of addressing the scourge of substance abuse and alcohol and several social ills that impact all sectors of the communities. Ours is therefore not to focus on one specific drug, but on ensuring that communities are protected and spared from the proliferation of other substances. This we achieve through an integrated strategy that involves participation from all sectors of our community, Mohatle said.He said that the use and abuse of drugs is universal, therefore we cannot say they are used differently in different regions. The Gauteng Anti-Substance Abuse Social Movement, the Ke Moja programmes are some of the activities that Gauteng has successfully launched in response to the tenets of the National Drug Master Plan, Mohatle said.A recently-released United Nations (UN) world drug report named South Africa as one of the drug capitals of the world.South African National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Department (Sanca) director, Terrence Makananisa, said another blow in the fight against drugs was the shortage of rehabilitation centres in the country. It is mostly the rural areas that struggle with not having centres. For instance, Limpopo just recently got their first centre in Seshego. Makananisa said family support was lacking. Family members dump their loved ones at the centre and will only visit when there is a problem. With family support the recovery of most patients would be more speedy, Makananisa said.More than 300 people took part in the anti-drug campaign in Rosettenville, Johannesburg, in September.Spokesperson Virgil James for the city of Joburg said that the 5.2km march was a success and communities were engaged on the dangers of drug abuse. The city will not allow nyaope to be available openly, James said. He said that the fight to eradicate drugs needed a united effort and the NGOs are needed in this battle.According to SAPS figures, 60% of crimes nationally were related to substance abuse. In the Western Cape, the figure was closer to 80%.The perpetrators of these crimes are either under the influence of substances, or trying to secure money for their next fix.SISANDA MADWANTSI AND ELFAS TORERAI