Tips to make your man go wild in bed Men rarely divulge their secret desires to the women in their lives and though everyone has different needs and desires there are some moves and attitudes that most men want. Read on to find out what they are and then give him the time of his life!Give some subtle suggestions For men (even though he&#8217;s known you for a while now) a woman&#8217;s libidinous longings are not always easy to decipher. If you drop some hints about what all you want and guide him along, he will love you for it.Bowl him over with a wild move Do something unexpected and wild when you both are at it. Something erotic that he will not be able to forget soon. Make your session stand out by coming up with signature moves. Work on pleasuring him in different ways.Offer the spice of variety Change in speed, positions and pressure can really make the entire experience very different. Whether it is the foreplay or the actual act, if there is variety he will never really know what to expect and therefore it will help a great deal in revving up his senses.Turn it on yourself Since women take time to get turned on, men love women who can take that responsibility off them so that he can actually get to work. Though your man may love to do all that he needs to in order to get you aroused but he would definitely like it if you were already half-way there.Spring a surprise For men it is a massive ego boost to know that you want him too. Surprising him with a spontaneous seduction act can really win him. He will not be likely to forget it in a hurry.Don&#8217;t be scared to be naughty Don&#8217;t hold back when you are with your guy. Yes, we know that you have this &#8216;good-girl&#8217; image that you hold sacred. Men like to see this other side of you when you are not scared to break his &#8216;good-girl&#8217; image of you. They will never cause offense by actually asking you to do it. Just show him that you are really into him and want him as much as he wants you.Give him an eyeful Leaving something on your body, for him to remove can be very arousing. When you are at it just make sure you are near a mirror so that you can see yourselves in action. It can be hot.Get rough Yes, he wants it rough at times and he would love it if you let him know that you want it too. Bring out the beast in him and tell him you are having the time of your life.Take over Sometimes men just want you to take over while he just lies down and enjoys. It is an ultimate fantasy for them.This article first appeared on The Times of India