Parliament s Standing Committee on Finance (Scofa) will hold public hearings next month into aspects of the Financial Intelligence Amendment Bill that President Jacob Zuma found to be unconstitutional.Scofa received legal opinion from Parliament s Legal Services Unit on the process to be followed to attend to the president s concerns.Yesterday it was explained that the joint rules of Parliament required that the committee confine itself to the president s reservations.The committee cannot initiate a process to reconsider any other provisions of the Bill. Although the committee may receive written representations, it has complied with its constitutional obligation to facilitate public involvement in the process of considering the Bill. Hence it cannot redo this process. Once the committee has concluded its deliberations, it must report to the National Assembly. The procedure in the Assembly is also restricted to the president s reservations, committee chairperson Yunus Carrim said.The national Treasury and the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) explained to the committee that the provision under question did not allow warrantless inspections in general. An inspection may only be conducted in relation to the business affairs of an accountable institution and only to determine compliance with the FIC Act. Inspections are therefore limited in scope. Scofa agreed that it has to focus only on the single provision on searches without warrants, which the president had found to be unconstitutional. On this provision alone it will consider submissions from stakeholders.The committee also agreed to seek independent advice from senior counsel.Committee chairperson Yunus Carrim said: We had extensive public hearings in our long processing of the Bill earlier this year. We are now confined to deciding whether the provision for searches without warrants in this Bill is unconstitutional. This provision was not introduced by the committee, but by Cabinet. However, if there is significant agreement among the lawyers consulted by Parliament that it s unconstitutional, of course we ll amend it. But if the lawyers are convinced it s constitutional we can t amend it. This is not a policy matter, it s a constitutional matter, and it ll have to be primarily decided by lawyers. If the lawyers Parliament consults can t agree, we can maybe delete the provision. But it s also possible that the Constitutional Court might have to decide on this, Carrim said.The committee will also have public hearings in late January on the constitutionality of warrantless searches.On Tuesday, Carrim said that the Bill was constitutionally viable. Parliament is not going to tremble and buckle just because the president s lawyers said it s unconstitutional. If the presidency s lawyers are wrong, they re wrong, Carrim said.Zuma referred the Bill back to the National Assembly as he believed there were some constitutional issues that needed to be addressed.At the time, Zuma said: I have given consideration to the Bill in its entirety and certain submissions regarding the constitutionality of the Bill. After consideration of the Bill and having applied my mind to it I am of the view that certain provisions of the bill do not pass constitutional muster. Dennis Cruywagennews@thenewage.co.za