Motorists not paying e-tolls have been warned that their actions could have a knock-on effect on the economy.South African National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral) general manager for communications Vusi Mona says that should e-tolls fail, the domino effect on the economy will prove disastrous for the country. This is the reason why our national Treasury and Department of Transport has supported e-tolls and rejected the fuel levy as a sole option for road infrastructure development, Mona said.Mona told the New Age: There are just more than 2.9 million accounts with a balance owing. However 1.2 million thereof owe less than R500 each. There are about 2.5 million vehicles using the e-toll network in Gauteng on a monthly basis according to Mona. Of these, 1.45 million are registered of which 1.3 million have accounts in good standing.Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan instructed the agency to make road users partially pay for its debt recovery, during his budget vote in 2012.This week the road agency said it was owed R11bn in outstanding e-tolls fees.Gordhan told the Cabinet that Sanral would lose R200m a month without e-toll collections.The minister said hiccups that would come from a fuel levy as an alternative would increase by another R16.5bn to cover the perceived shortfall equivalent, at an increase of almost R1 in the fuel levy, something motorists could not afford. We have prepared 6 286 summonses to be served by the sheriff to road users to pay outstanding toll fees totalling R575m from April this year. The summonses are a first step to recovering R6.2bn owed in toll fees. Sanral is also in the process of preparing bulk summonses for outstanding debt. Furthermore, Gauteng drivers who have avoided paying e-toll bills will soon be forced to as the South African National Roads Agency is finalising a plan to prevent the renewal of licence discs for those who owe billions in arrear bills.Mona said: The administrative process by which the renewal of vehicle licence discs are blocked for contravening the National Roads Act is being finalised, now that the court process with the service provider managing the eNatis system has been concluded in court. The eNatis system , the country s vehicle management system which keeps records of vehicles including fines, will be governed by the Road Traffic Management Cooperation following a Constitutional Court judgment which ruled in favour of the government instead of a private firm which previously managed the system.Gauteng motorists owed Sanral about R1bn in 2014 and that has increased to R11.4bn. Mona said more than 75% of registered vehicles fitted with e-tags paid less. Debtors who continue to ignore e-toll bills are being targeted in a concerted debt recovery plan by Sanral that started on October 1, he said.He said the decision to issue summonses to debt defaulters was taken after the conclusion of a 60% discount on e-toll bills did not attract many debtors.But Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse chairperson Wayne Duvenage urged the public to notify Outa if they encountered challenges when renewing licence disks as a result of unpaid e-tolls.HLONI MASHIGO