Police in Thabong near Welkom have opened a case of murder after a man was stabbed and killed while having sex in his car with an unknown woman.According to police spokesperson Capt Malebo Khosana, the incident happened about 2am on Saturday.He said the police were called to the scene and upon arrival they found a half-naked man lying motionless on the ground. On closer inspection it was discovered that he was stabbed several times in his back, said Khosana. According to the findings on the crime scene, the victim was stabbed while he was busy having sex with an unknown woman inside a car in the middle of street, Khosana said.He said the woman who was in the car fled the scene. The victim was later identified as Mobi Ntseke by his stepmother on Sunday. We are investigating a murder case and we are requesting members of the public to assist us in finding the culprit as he is still at large, said Khosana.The motive for the stabbing is still unclear. Anyone with information about the whereabouts of the culprit or the woman may contact Thabong police on 0579102300/2397/2398.Meanwhile, police in Virginia have opened an attempted murder docket for investigation after a man was shot by a bus driver on Saturday about 2pm.Khosana said it was reported that Motete Molete, a 29-year-old man, transported his friend in a taxi to the taxi rank in Extension 5 where his friend was going to take a bus to work. It is reported that Motete parked his taxi in front of the bus. The bus driver approached him and they started quarrelling and grabbed each other. During the scuffle, a firearm was apparently discharged by the bus driver and the bullet hit Motete in the hip and he fell down. The bus driver drove off. The victim was taken to Katleho hospital for medical treatment, Khosana said.He said the suspect had not yet been arrested. Any person with information that can assist may contact WO Lesole Monye of Virginia SAPS detective unit on 0820842401, Khosana said.BECKER SEMELA beckers@thenewage.co.za