From rejection to cup final. That s how one could sum up the journey that Thamsanqa Mkhize has travelled thus far.The versatile former Maritzburg United player started the season on a low note when his contract was terminated by Orlando Pirates.Then coach Muhsin Ertugral told him that he had no future with the Buccaneers, as the defender was not in the Turk s plans. And just like that, his long-cherished dream of featuring for the oldest team in South Africa went up in smoke.But the plucky fullback refused to give in to despondency, pulled himself together, packed his bags and headed back home to KwaZulu-Natal gutted but hopeful.Then, lady luck smiled on Mkize, and the new kids on the block, Cape Town City, came calling. Head coach Eric Tinkler tabled an 18-month offer and since then the player has grabbed the opportunity with both hands and made an immediate impact.Despite having spent barely six months in the PSL, City have been riding the crest of the wave, topping the PSL log and to compound their trailblazing ways, the Cape side have reached their maiden cup final.City s line up against on fire SuperSport United in the Telkom Knockout final at Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday but only those not familiar with the story of David and Goliath will bet against Tinkler s upstarts to upset the seasoned Matsatsantsa a Pitori.Reflecting on the past four months, Mkhize said he had to be strong to forge ahead. Being rejected by Pirates was a bitter pill to swallow but I had to pick up the pieces and move on. Here I am in the cup final, he said. As players we play as a unit and we work for each other and help one another. That is what has helped this team and also the grace of God. Mkhize heads into the final on the back of a morale-boosting win over Bidvest Wits away from home. Mkhize earned the man of the match award in that fantastic 3-2 win in Milpark. It would be nice to follow up with another win in the final but it would also be great to maintain our momentum, he said.LINDA XIMBAsports@thenewage.co.za