A Youtube video displaying a small aerial camera known as a drone inspired a former African Eye News journalist to start his own photographic business.Nkosinathi Sengwayo, who was born in Chappies Reef 30 years ago, said he started his company known as Omtle in 2013.When he was at work every day, he used to surf the internet in order to check for business opportunities.After he saw the drone aerial camera, he conducted a six-month research trying to find a way of using it for business purposes.When he was done with his research he drafted a proposal and approached his potential clients.When he approached the clients he did not have the money to buy the camera. However, he managed to convince one of his clients to pay a deposit up front. He then used the money to buy the camera. After I bought the camera I had another problem because I did not know how to use it. I spent the whole day and night practicing and the following day I went to do the assignment I had been paid for. My first assignment went well and the client recommended me to other companies. After a few weeks many companies were telephoning me non-stop asking about my photographic service, he said. Sengwayo says his company is growing as he recently hired nine full-time employees.He said the company offers different photographic services to different clients. The company has a number of clients, which include private companies, soccer teams and government departments, he said.The businessman said the service that he offers includes taking aerial photographs and videos.He said his special remote camera has the ability to capture pictures of huge buildings and construction sites from above, which is a service most cameras cannot offer.He said the constructors and government officials use his service to capture images that show the progress of the projects.In five years time, Sengwayo dreams of employing more than 50 people in his company.He advised young graduates to use their acquired skills to start their own businesses in order to create more job opportunities and grow the economy of the country.When interviewed by The New Age, the businessman said it gives him sleepless nights when he thinks about the many skilled young people who are struggling to make ends meet due to the high unemployment that engulfs the country. I think the problem of unemployment would be a thing of the past if we as young people could effectively make use of the many opportunities that are available in the country. Young people should also make use of the internet and the technology that we have in order to access business opportunities. I am one of the living examples who used the internet and technology to start my photographic company. I want to take this opportunity to thank local business people and the Mpumalanga government for their support, Sengwayo said.Sengwayo grew up without knowing the whereabouts of his mother and his father left him as well.He saw his mother for the first time in 2000 when he was already a grown young man.He was raised by his grandmother and his grandfather, who loved him.He said when he was a young boy he used to look after his family s herd of cattle when he returned from school.After completing Grade 12, he went to college to study graphic design, but he dropped out due to financial problems. Sengwayo and his wife Pretty live in a rented apartment in Nelspruit.provinces@thenewage.co.za