Platinum Stars coach Cavin Johnson can find a lot of truth in Steve Komphela s assertion that victories have many fathers, while a loss is an orphan . This because Johnson finds himself in a similar position as Komphela, where his team has been consistently losing matches.While many were quick to dish out the plaudits when he saved Dikwena from relegation and guided them to a third place finish last year, earning them a place in the CAF Confederation Cup, Johnson is now under pressure after Stars six losses in 11 matches. The Rustenburg side has only registered two wins against Golden Arrows and SuperSport United while the other three matches ended in draws.In a show of solidarity, club captain Vuyo Mere said the players are 100% behind the coach in this difficult period. The former Mamelodi Sundowns right back said players would have to improve quickly as the situation was not only bad for the coach. We cannot blame the coach when things are not going well, but keep quiet when the team does well, Mere said. Not so many people praised Cavin when he came here, saved the team and last season helped us to a third-place finish. It is totally unfair on him. We had a meeting as players and talked about how lucky we are to have this man as our coach. Not only is he a good coach, he is a good human being who is patient with us and has given a lot of youngsters a break. Losing him would be a horrible setback for the team. As players, we need to pull up our socks and get the team out of this hole. We cannot keep gambling with our lives because if we continue like this, we might get relegated and then what? Stars, placed 14th on the 16 team Absa Premiership log, facenewly crowned Telkom Knockout champions Cape Town City at Athlone Stadium tonight. Mere, who insists that the six losses have not affected Dikwena s ambitions of finishing in the top four this season, said the Rustenburg side is more than capable of beating City, who will be confident after winning the Telkom Knockout final on Saturday. We have managed to win against Golden Arrows and also beat SuperSport United. We can beat Cape Town City. No one is guaranteed points in this league this season. We cannot go there with the mentality that we have lost. Not all is lost, but we will need to start showing to our fans and to ourselves that we will die for this team in every match. mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane