Swartkops Bridge in Nelson Mandela Bay has been colourfully refurbished and turned into a significant landmark and is set to play a significant role for both business and the community at large.The Swartkops Bridge is one of the oldest steel bridges in Nelson Mandela Bay and has been given a long overdue makeover by the Bay municipality as it had been found to be structurally unsafe and a danger to motorists.Mayor Athol Trollip officially switched on the traffic lights at the bridge and said he was impressed with the project.Trollip congratulated young people from the roads and transport directorate who made sure that the bridge was finished on time . You have turned the bridge into something that is good and it can be a tourist attraction, Trollip said.Trollip said the bridge would no longer be a threat to business as business owners would not have to worry about it collapsing. You ve turned this bridge into a significant landmark and have done it in record time, which should be important in government. This river (Swartkops) is the lung of the city and is in a bad state, we need to clean it up. We look to our young professionals for innovative ideas in dealing with this river. We are aware of economic and recreational significance of the river. Thus, we appeal to metro residents to understand that we will work on it, Trollip said.He said that tourism played a crucial role in growing an economy which was why the municipality had embarked on a programme of refurbishing iconic landmarks and facilities. This will hopefully attract more and more tourists to our shores. This is one of many transformative strategies the municipality is embarking on to reposition the metro as one of the iconic cities in South Africa, Trollip said.Today, the Swartkops Bridge, which has gone through a meticulous transformation, is one of the city s iconic landmarks and has had its lifespan extended by 15 to 20 years.The bridge was built in 1879 and reconstructed in 1974. The municipality recently took a decision to refurbish the structure to prevent it from rusting further and possibly collapsing.All the badly rusted steel has been removed and replaced with new material and the remainder of the bridge has been sandblasted, primed and painted in colours that will be visible from the N2 as the bridge is a landmark in the metro.The bridge is an entry and exit point to Swartkops and, as such, plays a significant role for both business and the community at large. It is also a popular spot for fishermen who use the structure as a shelter during their fishing excursions.The bridge has been painted in six colours that each have a special meaning.The colours represent:Yellow Arrive Alive;Red HIV-Aids awareness;Pink breast cancer awareness;Orange hunger awareness;Blue water conservation; andGreen environmental conservation. The bridge is used by hundreds of ordinary people and fishermen.Primary school pupils use it to cross over to school, workers and shoppers use it to cross over to Deal Party industrial area.indiphileb@thenewage.co.za