Eastern Cape Premier Phumulo Masualle unveiled Oliver Tambo &#8216;s statue in Mbizana on Tuesday . Masaulle said Oliver Tambo worked so hard for South Africa and he valued education, he also mentioned centenary celebration to honour Tambo.&#8221; Today we are unveiling the statue of Tambo and this is just the beginning of the centenary celebrations to happen next year. We want to show the whole world what this legend left for us and next year we will be celebrating the legend,&#8221; said the Premier.Oliver Tambo was born in Nkantolo village outside Mbizana on the 27th of October 1917. The unveiling took place in his rural town Mbizana. Alfred Nzo District Municipality Executive Mayor, Sixolile Mehlomakhulu said the statue will be a reminder of how well he fought for freedom. We hope that this statue will serve to inspire future generations of young people to embrace the ideals that Oliver Tambo dedicated his life to, said Mehlomakhulu. The OR Tambo statue is the first ever to be erected in his home province of the Eastern Cape, particularly in his rural town of Mbizana. The Mbizana Municipality were excited to be the part of the unveiling. &#8221; This is a sign that even if you come from the disadvantage background , you can still make it just like Oliver Tambo,&#8221; said Mr Magenu the spokesperson of the Mbizana local Municipality. Advocate Sonwabile Mangcotywa said OR Tambo left values of respect among South Africans. &#8221; Tambo was a selfless leader a good listener who loved children,and his country&#8221; said Mangcotywa speaking on behalf of OR Tambo foundation and the Tambo family . Tambo is recorded to be the longest serving President of the African National Congress (ANC) who along with other anti-apartheid activists paved the way for a free South Africa. The OR Tambo statue unveiling in his home town precedes his centenary celebrations that are expected to kick off next month and his life and times will be widely celebrated across the country and the globe throughout 2017. TNA Reporter 