Veteran actor Vusi Kunene has promised cinema goers a moving story of love and politics in A United Kingdom, which is set for release on Friday.Kunene plays the role of Tshekedi Khama, the regent of the Bamangwato tribe who took over the leadership of his people after the death of his older brother, Sekgoma II.In 1923, Khama III died and was succeeded by his son Sekgoma II, who died after serving only two years. The heir to the throne, four-year-old Seretse Khama, was not ready for the job of ruling the Ngwato and so his 21-year-old uncle Tshekedi Khama became regent of the clan on January 19, 1926.Tshekedi was tasked with leading the Batswana nation until Seretse was old enough to assume the reign.The film stars a good mix of local and international stars with Nigerian American Hollywood actor David Oyelowo playing the role of Seretse Khama, the former Botswana president, who marries Englishwoman Ruth Williams, played by the accomplished English actress Rosamund Pike.Khama later becomes the leader of the Buchuanaland as the first president of Botswana.Based on a true story, Seretse Khama (Oyelowo) is the Prince of Bechuanaland (now Botswana).In 1948 he meets and falls in love with London office worker Ruth Williams (Pike) but their interracial relationship is not approved of by either of their families, nor by the British and South African governments. Seretse and Ruth must defy family, apartheid and the British empire to return from an imposed exile to their African kingdom and assume power after independence. This is a story worth telling because not only does it entertain, it educates and informs people about the history of Botswana and how South Africa was influential in the politics and history of the Bechuanaland. I had to read up on the history to prepare for the role, Kunene said. I have learnt quite a lot as a result. Instead of reading about the history and politics of the time, I urge people to come out in their numbers to watch the film so that they can be moved by a masterpiece that is A United Kingdom. By trying to bring the character of Tshekedi to life, Kunene says he had to find a way to make Tshekedi s perceived stubbornness and ruthlessness more humane. I had to guard against making Tshekedi heartless without reason.What I tried to do was to investigate some of the issues of the time, he said. The foresight that elders have guided me through the process of bringing the character to life. Sometimes it is easy to judge someone s decisions without acknowledging some of the forces of history, politics and societal norms.Kunene says some of the forces at play between Tshekedi and his nephew, Seretse, came from a general opposition to the latter marrying a white woman, Ruth Williams, who he met in England where he studied. There were both political and customary forces at play and, as an elder, Tshekedi was furious at this breach of tribal custom. The South African authorities, still hoping to absorb Bechuanaland into the union, were also strongly opposed. The British government, blocking Seretse s chieftaincy, is also another force thrown into the mix of things as Seretse is exiled from the protectorate to England. This bitterness continues until 1956 when Seretse Khama renounced his right to the tribal throne and returned with his wife to Botswana, Kunene said.Speaking on his iconic role as Jack Mabaso on Generations: The Legacy, Kunene said fans of the show could expect to see his character in a new light as his family life becomes the central storyline in coming weeks. We have seen, with the arrival of his wife, that things are getting interesting for Jack Mabaso, he said. People are going to find out more of the same as a result of these new developments. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za