South Africa belongs in Africa and was not trying to close its borders to fellow Africans by forming a border management agency (BMA), according to Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba.He spoke about the BMA after his department had delivered its annual report to Parliament s home affairs portfolio committee yesterday.Gigaba said: This is not an attempt on our part to shut South Africa down. We belong in Africa. What we want to shut down is irregular entry into our country. We want to channel all visitors to South Africa to the ports of entry so that they enter as regular visitors. Apart from Madagascar, the DRC and Angola, South Africa has signed visa agreements with all SADC countries. There is really no reason why people from SADC countries should enter South Africa illegally, said Gigaba.On the BMA itself, Gigaba said that the Cabinet would have to decide how and when it would be established. National legislators had raised concerns about the customs functions of such an agency, particularly about where how it would be funded and the revenue collected should go.Customs only collects 10% of its revenue at South African border posts, because those bringing goods into the country usually paid their tariffs electronically. We conceded that it is not the intention of the proposed BMA to collect revenue. So revenue that belongs to SARS in terms of revenue legislation will still go to SARS. Gigaba added: BMA will only be responsible for the enforcement and inspection of goods arriving at the ports of entry, because the decision by the Cabinet is that the BMA should take all responsibility for border line management as well as for the management of ports of entry. This means that every other player at the port of entry will cede their responsibilities and, if necessary, personnel to the BMA. Regarding when it would be implemented, Gigaba said he expected the BMA Bill to be passed by both the National Assembly (NA) and National Council of Provinces (NCP) before the end of 2016. We still expect that the bill will be passed by the NA and NCP by the end of the financial year. We hoped that it would be passed before the end of this year. We are now are going to push very tight timelines. By next year, he said, the process of establishing the authority would start. You can t pass the legislation today and have the BMA tomorrow. There will be a transition process. We are anticipating that at least the main ports of entry should be ready in 12 months time. He added it would take between five and seven years for ports of entry and a border guard to be established.Dennis Cruywagennews@thenewage.co.za