Holidaymakers and travellers have been urged to be sober and alert on the province s roads this festive season.Community safety and transport management MEC Dr Mokgantshang Motlhabane during the launch of this year s festive season road safety operation in Potchefstroom.During the festive season traffic volumes pick up drastically, often leading to accidents.Motlhabane said that law enforcement will be out in full force on national, provincial and municipal roads and on busy streets in the province. Our law enforcement agencies will embark on a number of operations across the province to try to reduce the number of incidents, accidents and deaths on our roads, but we also need to remember that road safety begins with an individual. We cannot afford to have a law enforcement officer on every road, in every vehicle, in every house, or on every street of the province. Therefore we need to ask citizens to exercise restraint and self-discipline, as well as ask that they abide by the country s laws, Motlhabane said.The campaign launch was led by the South African Minister of Transport, Dipuo Peters, MEC Motlhabane and the mayor of municipality, Kgotso Khumalo.It started with a multipurpose roadblock where authorities engaged with motorists, commuters and road users in general.The roadblock was a joint effort by the provincial traffic unit, the Road Traffic Management Corporation, police, and the municipality.The roadblock was followed by a visit to Potchefstroom taxi ranks and ended with interactions with motorists at the N12 Engen garage. Road safety continues to be an issue of great concern to the government and this calls for more efforts in the quest to curb incidents and accidents. Many lives are continuously lost as a result of road accidents. We are appealing to all road users, including pedestrians and jay walkers, to be vigilant and exercise caution on the roads. Our Bokone Bophirima province and the country at large cannot afford any more deaths caused by road accidents than it has already experienced, Motlhabane said.He said all law enforcement agencies were ready to go ahead with the initiative and they would not tolerate any law violations. We are ready to make it impossible for those on the wrong side of the law to persist with this conduct. If you try driving under the influence of alcohol, if you text while driving, if you do not fasten your seat belt or if you are doing anything that is not compliant with good road usage, you will find yourself behind bars and off our roads and behind bars, he said.The MEC warned all those owing fines to pay up to avoid getting locked up during the holidays. If you owe any traffic fines you will not be spared. You had better hurry up and pay or else you will be caught and made to pay the fine as well as the court charges right there and then, he said.elfast@thenewage.co.za