FOR most, summer equates to a need to be healthy and fit with all the trimmings of newly exposed arms, legs and midriffs after months of hiding beneath layers of cashmere during the winter season.Now that summer is here, many have had to push their healthy bodies ahead of the new year as procrastination and laziness stole all those DIY and gym sessions that were never honoured.It is also true that a body to die for is never a simple feat to achieve. However, fitness and health fanatic and biokineticist Natasha Deley says this can be achieved with a great balance between exercise and healthy eating habits. The summer heatwaves have hit and you still have not done one stitch of exercise. Don t worry, there is still hope. The secret to being healthy and fit is to start now, Deley told The New Age in a recent interview.She believes that eating right and avoiding starving is a great way of starting one s health and fitness regime. People should avoid going on a crash diet as this kind of eating is not healthy. It poses a danger to one s health and fitness levels. The best way to start is obviously eating, then following a steady fitness regime. I would advise those who have not been to the gym and those who hardly ever exercise to consult a doctor or fitness expert before beginning their fitness regime. Change your diet by getting rid of foods that will create inflammation and puffiness in the body. She said replacing sugar, gluten, carbs and alcohol with green vegetables, proteins and healthy fats will help you reach your body goals. A huge misconception is that fats make you fat, that s a cultural myth. Good fats like avocado, goat cheese and the skin on organic chicken will make your skin look better, without contributing to weight gain. Deley, who is a Biokineticist at Planet Fitness Platinum, says part of her job is to rehabilitate people, athletes and children s physical fitness levels using body movement technique as a science. Part of being a biokinticist is to help those who are injured to get back to their normal lives through improving their physical functioning and health care using a range of exercises. We also do what is called final phase rehabilitation. Below Deley shares her most effective tips on how to look smooth, glowing and fit all summer long with a combination of good food and easy to do exercise routines. 1 000 calorie deficit a dayFocus on eating less and exercising more to create a 1000 calorie deficit each day. This will cause you to lose about 500g-1kg a week. If you usually eat 2 200 calories a day, eat just 1 600 calories and burn an extra 400 calories through exercise. Avoid crash diets Crash diets that have you eating less might seem like the solution as you drop weight faster. Most of the weight will come from your muscle tissue and crash diets slow down your metabolism. You will pick up the weight just as quickly when you stop the diet because your body has adapted to working slower. Your body needs energy from food to fuel your exercise, so workouts will be a lot tougher if you starve yourself. Eliminate water weight When you only have two weeks to whip your body into shape, you ll also need to look beyond fat loss and eliminate any sources of bloating in your diet. Water weight can add a few kilograms or more to your frame and making a few key changes in your eating habits can help you shed it. Sodium is one major water-retention culprit, so cut back on salt. The sodium from just one extra gram of salt in your body can lead to 1kg of added weight, which will disappear once you flush the excess.Read food labelsRead food labels and aim for no more than 2 300mg of sodium a day to avoid the bloat. Another way to beat bloating is to eat smaller meals instead of large feasts, helping to eliminate belly protrusion. And while very highfibre foods such as broccoli and pinto beans are normally healthy to eat, they can cause gassy bloating. Keep them off of your plate for a couple of days before beach time. Another surprising no-no is artificial sweeteners, which often contain sugar alcohols that can cause bloating. Carbonated drinks can also expand your stomach, so steer clear of diet sodas before slipping into your swimsuit. Some exercise tips for considerationNot only does this routine target multiple muscles, but it also gives your metabolism a boost (since your body is in constant motion). Choose a move for each part of your body (upper, lower, and core) and do five sets twice a week. To get the best results, be sure to challenge yourself (you ll know you are if you re barely able to finish the reps). Upper body: Caterpillarwalk Stand with feet together. Bend over, bringing hands to the floor, then slowly walk hands forward to come into push-up position with hands in line with shoulders, do one push-up. Keeping hands planted, walk feet toward them and return to standing, that s one rep. Keep your core tight throughout the move. Upper body: Lateral bear crawl Begin in up part of push-up with core tight and body in straight line, hands outside shoulders, feet together. Do one push-up, then move right hand next to left hand and right foot out to the right so feet are wider than shoulders, do another push-up. Return to start. Repeat entire move 10 times and do 10 reps in other direction. Core: Rotational mountain climber Begin in the up part of a pushup with hands outside shoulders, feet together, core engaged. Bring your left knee forward toward your right elbow so your left hip points toward the floor, return to previous position, then repeat on opposite side. Continue alternating for 30 seconds. Core: Alternating Bug Lie on your back with arms and legs pointing toward ceiling, core engaged, feet flexed. Lower left arm and right leg until parallel to floor. It s OK if you aren t in a perfect 90-degree angle. Return to previous position and repeat on opposite side. Arm and leg movements should be fluid and slow. Continue to alternate for 30 seconds. V-Ups: Lie on your back with arms extended overhead, feet flexed and heels resting on a wall (or calves on a bench), your legs should be at a 45-degree angle to the ground. Tuck your chin toward your chest, engage your abs and bring your arms forward as you begin to curl up, try to touch your toes. Slowly uncurl to return to starting position. Do 12 reps. Triceps dip: Sit on the edge of a bench or chair with your legs extended. Grip the edge with each hand so your fingers face your body. Move your butt forward and off the bench, allowing your knees to bend slightly. Bend your elbows to lower your butt toward the ground, then straighten them to come back up. Do 12 reps. Plank: Lie face down with legs extended and elbows bent and directly under shoulders, clasp your hands. Feet should be hip-width apart and elbows should be shoulder-width apart. Contract your abs, then tuck your toes to lift your body (forearms remain on the ground), you should be in a straight line from head to heels. Hold for 60 seconds or as long as you can. Lower body: Curtsy lunge Stand with feet together. Step left foot across and in front of right foot while dropping right knee down in lunge position. Push into both feet to return to standing, then repeat on the opposite side, that s one rep. For best form, keep chest and chin up as you lunge. Do 10 reps. Lower body: Broad jump and tuck Stand with feet hip-width apart. Bend knees and push hips back to lower into a squat, jump forward as far as you can, landing with feet hip-width apart. Immediately jump as high as you can into the air, bringing both knees up toward chest, that s one rep. Land softly, with knees slightly bent. Do 10 reps. Don t want to jump? Just do a regular squat.-siyabongas@thenewage.co.za