A recurrent question that I m quite certain most of us come across these days is, Quo Vadis SA? (Where are you going SA?) and in turn, Quo Vadis ANC?The question of whether the country is on the right track arises because of a variety of negative macro-economic and macro-social trends that are manifesting at various levels.However, our view is that in the midst of hyperbole we should not miss the major achievements that the country has made and continues to make in improving the human condition. On the other hand, an unbridled positivity and defensiveness can tempt us to avert our eyes from danger signals.And so, Quo Vadis South Africa?As we all know, in 2012 South African adopted the National Development Plan (NDP) with laudable targets for 2030, supported then by all the parties in Parliament.If the settlement of the early 1990s constituted a political compact, there seemed then to be a unique opportunity to forge a social compact bringing together all the partners to address the multitude of social legacies we have inherited.After the 2014 elections, the medium term strategic framework (MTSF) was adopted by the Cabinet and it contains the first steps required towards the attainment of the objectives of the NDP. The issue though is whether this MTSF is being rigorously implemented or whether the practitioners are consumed by other issues. The evidence in this regard is not encouraging.In the build-up to and at the mid-term national general council last October, there was an open and inclusive process of reflection within the organisation. What is encouraging though is that there is a new mood within the ANC and the alliance: The most sensitive of issues about corruption and state capture are now surfacing in formal discussions. The December 9 fiasco at the national Treasury had its own silver lining as a lesson in Economics 101 about the limits of power in a small open economy.Yet all of us can sense what the Greeks call hubris, meaning a defiance of the gods that can only end in nemesis or self-destruction. From the strange conduct at SARS, the behaviour of the Hawks and the National Prosecuting Authority, to the bizarre activities in Denel and Eskom, and a minister s Cabinet statement on the banks that never was all these tell us that the beneficiaries of corruption and state capture will not give up without a fight.And so, we have contradictory tendencies in the broader environment, a clear lodestar in the form of the NDP and yet a variety of weaknesses that have placed the ANC and the country at the edge of a cliff.The question about the state of the ANC cannot be unlinked from the major trends that have emerged from the recent elections.Starting off with the 2014 elections, three major trends need to be noted: Firstly, South Africa has avoided the curse of post-colonial Africa, that is, ethnicity, reflected among others in the fact that the three largest parties have a national footprint and ethno-cultural mobilisation has lost its shine in KZN. Secondly, we have started to witness the fickleness of the middle class as shown in declining ANC performance in the metros. The third trend, which we ll come back to later, is the fact that South African politics is shifting to the left as the liberal opposition, the DA, pursues the bigger pond of voters and with the emergence of the far left EFF.As we all know, the 2016 local government elections confirmed these trends but also raised critical issues.The ANC is in steep decline In the same period, the DA moved from 16.3% to 24.1% and now to 27% its rise has slowed after the absorption of the Independent Democrats. The EFF is not galloping either from 6.35% in 2014 to 8.25% this year. What is clear from analysis is that the turnout was stronger in DA strongholds and weaker in ANC areas thus PR/ward dissonance but the stay-away itself was an expression of protest in relation to candidate selection processes and due to corruption and state capture at national level which sullies Brand ANC . The critical question is whether the ANC can re-energise its base and effect a turnaround or is a stay-away a transit station to the DA and EFF?One consequence of the shift left is the temptation on the part of the ANC to cover its left flank by trying to compete with the EFF on what radicalism actually entails.The question has been asked whether the ructions in Cosatu would presage a tectonic shift in the country s political permutations.This depends on the organisational capacity of the forces that support Numsa and the United Front, and, in my view, their acumen in terms of community organisation.What are the implications of the local government election results on municipal governance?The ANC governs about 75% of municipalities. Quite clearly, in the build-up to 2019 there will be fractious discourse especially in the metros. The ANC in opposition will seek to prove that the DA is not interested in the conditions of the poor, the DA will dig up dirt to strengthen its narrative about corruption and the EFF will grandstand and may precipitate paralysis from time to time.Some of these developments may present opportunities of which we need to take advantage. The question of Quo Vadis South Africa? is also impacted upon by global and continental dynamics.The reconfiguration of China s economy towards domestic consumption will impact on South Africa and Africa broadly. Whether India will be able to pick up the baton as a locomotive of global growth is still a matter of conjecture. It s not obvious what impact the policies of the new US president s administration will have on the global economy. Quite clearly, some of them will worsen inequality.What is clear is that high levels of inequality and declining legitimacy of the political establishment is leading to left insurgencies within mainstream structures.What about Africa? Whatever the challenges, the Africa Rising narrative is still appropriate. Of course, there are many challenges on the continent, like macroeconomic management, reliance on a handful of sectors for exports, patronage linked to familial and party-political links and weaknesses in accommodating political difference.How do these opportunities and challenges relate to South Africa s own growth and development? Is Africa Rising a threat or an opportunity? South Africa is the economic growth laggard on the continent. The question is how South Africa can use economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa as an opportunity for mutually-beneficial osmosis.Let s now come back, more concretely, to the domestic issues pertaining to Quo Vadis South Africa? The South African polity is essentially a stable one, with the Constitution accepted across the board as the broad framework for the regulation of sociopolitical relations. The overriding trend arising from the 2014 elections is that some 93% of those who voted supported parties embracing the NDP.There has been progress in addressing poverty and providing water, electricity and sanitation as well as educational and health facilities. If there is a weakness in this area, it is that access to basic services is not combined with quality of services. Combined with this are the high levels of inequality.The reality is that, since 1994, South Africa has been in a delicate balancing act of preventing the flammable social tinder from catching fire.Besides social delivery and the base effects of the movement of many blacks into the middle strata, hope was the stock in trade.Poor performance and corruption are destroying that hopeIt is unavoidable that when there is a sense of repetitive poor management of allegations of corruption and patronage within high leadership echelons, the legitimacy of the state and the polity are undermined.What then should be the elements of that turnaround in relation to broader society?The NDP describes an economic story line that covers issues such as infrastructure, manufacturing, the green economy, mining and agriculture. Contained in that story line are challenges for the private sector (including foreign investors) to integrate the NDP s content into the strategic plans of sectors and enterprises not merely corporate social investment.But the state cannot implement the NDP on its own. Thus, we need a social compact of common and varied actions to realise Vision 2030. Social compacting should also be founded on an appreciation by the business community to deal with the root causes of poverty and inequality.Civil society also has a central role to play as workers need to strengthen organisations and unite in pursuit of their interests. Indeed, it s a tragedy that what characterises the union movement currently are divisions, factionalism and weakening voice.The question does arise; if the state is weak and directionless, should society throw up its hands in despair?What should be the elements of that turnaround in relation to the ANC?Issues raised in relation to social compacting speak to the principle of broad fronts and the role of a vanguard. Today, the ANC seems to be floating further away from the broad front for good .It resorts more and more to casting aspersions on eminent leaders of society and genuine and accomplished veterans of the movement and relies on technical responses to fundamental issues raised by civil society. At this level, a turnaround will depend on the ability of the ANC to rectify its internal weaknesses.The things that need to be done have long been identified. At the 2012 national conference, many urgent and central tasks of renewal were identified. Beyond this there was the 2005 document on organisational re-engineering.All these were meant to ensure the ANC maintains its organisational, ideological and policy integrity. It is natural that the mood within the ANC today is one of anger, impatience and clamour for quick resolution. It reflects the mood in the broader society.Yet, in the midst of challenges, we need to be careful not to seek quick solutions to a problem that is systemic. Otherwise, we may end up with the opposite of what is intended.The efforts to turn the ANC around, which in itself is preparation for the 2019 elections, should consist of a programme based on substantive issues about growth and development, about correcting wrongs and showing society that the ANC is serious about this both in word and in deed.Joel NetshitenzheJoel Netshitenzhe is an ANC national executive committee member, MK veteran and executive director of Mistra. This is an edited version of his statement to the MK national council