A group of ANC stalwarts and veterans who are signatories to For the Sake of our Future document have welcomed the latest bid by ANC structures to mend fences in the party.Former Cabinet minister and ANC stalwart Sydney Mufamadi said yesterday the veterans welcomed calls by a group of concerned commissars and commanders of the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association, led by Gen Siphiwe Nyanda to convene a council meeting of former MK members to steer the ANC from going off the rails. When people respond, it gives hope for the future. We are happy that our members, those who know the amount of sacrifice it took to get this country to where it is today are standing up to put things right, Mufamadi said.He said he hoped the interventions from the stalwarts and MK veterans would lead to a rethinking by the ANC s leadership on its role in leading society by exemplary conduct. It must lead the ANC to introspection about how it has been doing things, that is what is being called for. Introspection is a political programme. Mufamadi s comments come against the backdrop of a planned workshop by the veterans. The meeting, scheduled for next week is set to fine-tune their plans for the ANC s consultative conference next year. The workshop will have to think about the time-frames in which the consultative conference will take place within the structures of the ANC. Seeing that the consultative conference is an extraordinary event, the question of who will attend the conference will be addressed. We also agreed to seek a mandate on a two-day consultative conference being part of a policy conference. We think that there are questions to be asked before we determine the duration of the conference. Mafumadi said an ANC consultative conference would augur well in getting the ANC out of its quagmire in light of a local government election defeat hangover. An event such as the consultative conference where branches come together is strategic and tactical in terms of how we move forward, he said.Mafumadi, making reference to the ANC s elective conference said the stalwarts hoped the election of new leadership would be a step toward turning around the misfortunes of the ruling party. The organisation itself has acknowledged that it is fragmented and would not want to see the tendencies of factionalism continue unabated. For an organisation to be cohesive in building a nation, you need leadership that is elected in a non-factional way. We hope the process will result in the healing of factionalism. Mafumadi said the ANC s loss of key metro s in the elections was an indication that the party was heading towards a downward spiral. If you look at the performance of the ANC in the local governmet elections, the electoral support levels going southwards suggests that there is a level of unhappiness with the party, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za