High profile personalities want to put a stop to the illegal use of their names and faces in advertisements on websites and social media pages.Some of the celebrities who have fallen victim to the scams of unscrupulous con artists include businessmen, sports people and celebrities.The owner of Mamelodi Sundowns and billionaire businessman Patrice Motsepe, comedian Trevor Noah and Kaizer Chiefs midfielder Simphiwe Tshabalala are among the list of people who pop up on seemingly bona fide websites and social media sites as the faces of products promising clients a means to a quick buck. Even Virgin Active owner Richard Branson is not spared by the daring cyber criminals.The adverts and messages are designed to persuade consumers to buy anti-aging creams, diet pills or sign up for the latest binary numbers money craze.An advert with a grinning Noah reads: How Trevor Noah made his millions , while soccer star Tshabalala appears on an easy, cash-making ad that reads: This Cape Town guy makes $1000 (R13685)/hour online. The former Bafana Bafana star is furious about the illegal use of his brand and said he had unsuccessfully tried countless times to have the advert removed. It is very disturbing. It takes a lot for one to build a brand and then people just come and use your name like that for free. I am not happy about it, Tshabalala said. I have been trying to get them removed but have not been successful. Deputy Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize acknowledged that the growth of technology and easy access to information had made celebrities easy targets of cybercrime. These are not ordinary criminals. They are highly specialised people who focus on developing web and communication strategies and they search for potential targets. They will pull together a profile in such a way that it looks credible, Mkhize said.She said the problem with the internet was that there was an overload of information but little security. We generate a lot of information but we do not create protection walls to secure the information that we accumulate, she said.She said the recently proposed cybercrimes bill aimed to stop cybercrime and improve security.It would fill the legal instrument void, she said and even lead to prosecution of cyber criminals. The success rate in identifying and prosecuting these people is unfortunately lower than we would like. This is in part due to the international nature of the internet which allows the registration of domains in different parts of the world, she said. The bill will allow the training of police, specialists, investigators and analysts who will be able to detect threats. Also, it will allow for successful prosecution. It s the only way to reduce the incidents. Offenders could be fined up to R10m or jailed for 10 years, depending on the seriousness of the offence.But until the bill is passed, lawyer Zola Majavu said victims could always take legal action against the perpetrators. It is always possible to sue culprits for identity fraud provided their identity is confirmed, Majavu said.Cybersecurity expert Dr Joey Jansen van Vuuren said the fake ads were normally installed on genuine websites with malicious links through hacking, a technique hackers used to compromise poorly protected websites. They are usually propagated using Google Ads. Social media also plays a huge role in this as people tend to repost articles that have a click-bait punch line. These sites typically run adverts with high response click-bait lines, Van Vuuren said.He said it was not easy to get rid of these sites because they were legitimate websites but compromised malicious intent. More than a billion of these sites exist globally. More bogus sites are created every day. When one bogus site is shut down it can be immediately replaced by one or many other replica sites, he said.LESLEY TSHAMANO