In a fast-paced, electronic world, trends from around the globe are reaching SA far quicker, even more so when it comes to d cor and design.According to Richard Smith, deputy manager of Pam Golding Properties Hyde Park office, in the world of d cor and design, change can be both invigorating and refreshing, often adding to the aesthetics and therefore the overall presentation and value of a home. D cor changes, however, do not always have to come at a prohibitively high price. Some small changes and the addition of one or two beautiful objects can breathe new life into any home.Fortunately, the modern world has left the disposable interior culture of the past behind and we are reaching a more tranquil era where pieces of substance are valued, he said. Smith said what this means to the modern consumer is that previous trends can be adapted, refreshed and renewed, adding that this typically entails updating only one or two key items with contemporary materials and textures and layering accessories and smaller furnishings around a few classic yet versatile pieces.Early indications are that next year South African consumers can expect an increasingly mindful approach to interiors. Enter organic, muted palettes tempered by natural textures including wood, stone, cane, rattan and hemp, all of which are becoming sought after, along with a stronger emphasis on a generous scattering of interior plants in attractive containers. The trend towards organic home environments leaves the door wide open to every and any shade of green. While everyone appreciates elegance and beauty it is important to remember that a home must at all times be easy to live in.This will be particularly prevalent next year when homes will increasingly be adapted to bring the outdoors inside, Smith said. Given its suitability to the South African climate, this is a concept that has long been advocated by some of SA s most talented architects. Research shows that mixing indoor spaces with the outdoors is conducive to well-being, Smith said. Stylish interiors will be a little less obvious and quite a bit more whimsical next year. There will be a shift away from the expected, so the marble and copper objects that may seem so chic right now, will become somewhat pass in 2017. -TNA Reporter|business@thenewage.co.za 