The contract dispute between Siboniso Gaxa and Kaizer Chiefs is far from over.This despite the PSL s dispute resolution chamber (DRC) rejecting the defender s claim for compensation.Gaxa, now with Bidvest Wits, has been involved in an extended row with AmaKhosi over his submission that Chiefs had reneged on their contract.Despite the Naturena side posting on their Twitter account that he had been given a two-year extension last season, Chiefs later contradicted their Twitter message.After months in the boardroom, the DRC ruled in Chiefs favour last week, with the club releasing a statement on their website which partly read : Former Kaizer Chiefs defender Siboniso Gaxa s claim for compensation against the club has been rejected by the NSL s dispute resolution chamber. The DRC found no grounds to supporting the player s assertion that a binding contract still existed between himself and the club after he was released by Amakhosi in June 2016. We are pleased that the DRC has exonerated us regarding Siboniso Gaxa s contractual claim against us. The matter has finally been put to bed. We wish the player well in his future endeavours, Chiefs boss Bobby Motaung said.While Gaxa s agent Glyn Binkin could not be reached, sources close to the player said they have approached Safa and the matter will now be heard by an arbitrator.In another dispute involving Chiefs, the Soweto giants are set to intervene in the matter between their striker Edward Manqele and former agent Josiah Mphono. The bone of contention is cash Manqele allegedly owes Mphono.He feels Manqele sidestepped him after securing a transfer from Chippa United to Chiefs last season. After telling us of his wish to be released, we agreed on an amount of R50000 last December. An agreement was signed by both parties that payments will be made in two instalments, Mphono said. He only made one payment at the end of January and since then he has not come forward despite many attempts from my side to get hold of him. We were showed how much he earns and the length of his contract. It was after that, the amount which he was supposed to pay us was worked out. We all agreed he was going to pay us in two instalments. Chiefs have committed to pay Mphono on January 24.LINDA XIMBA