As the controversy over fracking rages, the scope of the Rhino Gas proposal for natural gas and oil exploration rights in the Dundee area has been greatly reduced.Phillip Steyn, vice-president and chief operating officer for the Texas-based Rhino Gas told stakeholders at a meeting recently that the company s proposed exploration area would now constitute 850000 ha, covering 6700 properties in KZN.This is down from the 1 million hectares originally targeted for the project to commence. All protected areas such as heritage sites and environmentally-sensitive areas in the province have now been excluded.Rhino will initially conduct aerial full tensor gravity gradiometry to survey the possibility of oil and gas reserves in the identified areas. Once this data have been analysed, target sites for core hole drilling could be done, Steyn said.However, should the company wish to drill, there would have to be another environmental impact report that would need public comment and ultimately, government approval, he said.That could be another seven years if the application is approved before there is any action in the area .It is the drilling proposal that has farmers twitchy as they fear that fracking may release contaminants into their already scarce water resources.Herman de Wet from the Rorke s Drift area said fracking and associated drilling would ruin the water sources and the soil. You can t give a 100% guarantee that the drilling of the wells will have no impact. We are also concerned that the politicians may steamroll the whole thing through. However, Travis Smithard, Rhino s chief geologist, attempted to ease matters. Hydraulic drilling was first used 65 years ago. But great strides have been made in environmental safety. Hence, the UK has now given fracking the go-ahead. Of the 12 000 wells drilled in the US the contamination factor is less than 1%, he said.While farmers will first have to grant permission for any access to their land, should the aerial survey prove successful and the next step of the environmental process is approved, farmers such as Carl Simpson, At van Coller, Jan Labuschagne and De Wet were not convinced.Labuschagne said seepage from abandoned coal mines had seriously polluted the water on his Wasbank farm and no one was accountable.Steyn agreed that previously, the environmental legislation was non-existent and this allowed some mine owners in the area to do their own thing with impunity . The environmental legislation in South Africa is now one of the tightest and best in the world. Rhino is certainly not here to pollute anyone s water. We are a caring company who want the best for all. The meeting ended on a magnanimous note with the farmers shaking hands with the Rhino officials. More meetings are expected in the coming months, he said.Fracking is a highly divisive and emotive issue not only in South Africa but also in countries like the US, with environmentalists sounding dire warnings about its impact.Supporters of fracking on the other hand point out that it will not only create much needed jobs but also address the country s energy problems. Despite strong opposition from the environmental lobby, fracking it seems, will start in earnest in the Karoo in five months.Langelihle Chagwe and Lesley Tshamanonews@thenewage.co.za