The Department of Mineral Resources said yesterday it would keep its eye on all relevant environmental and social issues in the mining sector.Departmental spokesperson Martin Madlala responded to a call by the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) for the department to intervene in the plight of workers at Babrook Mine Operations who could spend the festive season without salaries. While there is an employer, employee relationship between the workers and the mine, which we are not party to but as a legislator we have a responsibility to ensure that all commitments are made within the context of our governing laws, he said.Madlala s comments come against the background of Amcu president Joseph Mathunjwa slamming Babrook, which forms part of the Lily Mining operations for allegedly failing to pay workers their December salaries.He said workers were paid only 15% of their November salaries. It is for this reason that Mathunjwa said the workers now faced a bleak and black Christmas . Consequently, workers at Babrook were only paid 15% of their November salaries and are threatened with no pay for December while the management of Lily Mine will be feasting with their families, Mathunjwa said.He called for fresh investigations into the Lily Mine disaster. An inquest into the Lily Mine disaster is urgently required. It must investigate the negligence and irresponsibility of the mine management, which is resulting in thousands of workers being killed, injured or cast aside into abject poverty, he said.Mathunjwa accused Lily Mine management of failing to comply with its social labour plan. Like many mining companies, the Lily Mine management has failed to comply with its social labour plan. Future meetings were not called by the mine management to discuss any difficulties the company was facing at Babrook. Putting operations under business rescue seems like a tactic by mining companies to avoid their social obligations. Mathunjwa also accused the government of being indifferent to Amcu. This hostility of the state to Amcu is borne by the case brought by the renegade Thebe Maswabi, a founding member of the Workers Association Union, who is suing President Jacob Zuma and other ministers for unpaid fees for setting up a rival union to Amcu, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za