THEY are not the first twins to take to the decks, but Banele and Bandile Mbere, known to many of their fans as Major League DJz have created a unique path for themselves with a music style called, New Age Kwaito.They are following in the same footsteps as their producers such as George and Joseph Mothiba who make up the Sama award winning Revolution as well as Twistyle made up of Ignatius Iggy Smallz and Sphiwe Motshwane.One half of the enterprising duo, Banele visited The New Age offices just days after their car was broken into and most of their stuff stolen in Braamfontein. Eish, these things happen. I am now forced to use my old phone, but what can we do, he said in a rather melancholy voice while flicking through his old smartphone. Growing up in the US and here, Banele says they were surrounded by music because their father was not only friends with luminaries such as Hugh Masekela and Caiphus Semenya, but was a musician too. My big brother was also involved in music, so there was always music around us. From age 16, we began hosting events and worked with the likes of Tbo Touch. After seeing how DJs play, we taught ourselves how to play and from there we began our journey as hip hop DJs, he said.Major League DJz have over the past few years given young music fans a reason to celebrate South African music of the past two decades through their version of New Age Kwaito with songs such as Slyza Tsotsi, Zulu Girls as well as Sgetit (Umgulukudu) a song which features in the Mabala Noise Compilation album. With Umgulukudu, we combine mid tempo of the old school with a hip hop lifestyle element to make it accessible to an older generation, while the song Slyza Tsotsi was aimed at a younger audience. With Zulu Girls, the aim was to cater to more of a hip hop market, Banele said. The duo are working towards finishing off their debut album set for a March release. We re almost done with the album, and we re looking at combining our New Age kwaito with a bit of rock element, he said.As if releasing hits and playing to appreciative hip hop and kwaito crowds at clubs around the country were not enough, the innovative and experiential DJ duo also host their very own events, under the banner of Major League Gardens almost on a quarterly basis as a way to connect with their fans. We rely mostly on social media to market ourselves to our fans. We are honoured that young people trust us with their money, time and attend our events. It is not an easy thing as sometimes there are no guarantees that you will make your money back. Bandile said.They are known to incorporate percussion in their DJ sets giving their energetic set a live element while carving a different path for themselves. Besides being an identical set of twins, we keep things fresh by combining elements of hip hop and as well as having our very own movement New Age Kwaito to make sure we stand out from the rest, he said.Some of those who have influenced the duo are big names such as Fresh, Black Coffee, Fistaz and Euphonik. Banele and Bandile were born in Boston, US and when the apartheid era ended, the two young men and the rest of their family moved back home.-siyabongas@thenewage.co.za