Substitute teacher by trade and musician at heart, Noma Noxolo Khumalo s passion has just netted her the prestigious title of 2016 s South African Idols.At 22, she is the first black female winner in the competition s history. Not only that, but in the final leg of the competition, which saw her go head to head with fellow KZN musician Thami Shobede, Khumalo received a record number of votes from Idols fans. Throughout the 2016 season, 83 million votes were cast.Her win ended seven years of male reign in the show. It s been seven years since Sasha-Lee shared the crown with Jason Hartman and eight years since Jody Williams won outright. Last year Mmatema Moremi dominated season 11 only to finish as a runner-up at the end, dashing hopes of an Idols queen until now, that is.She joins the ranks of previous winners to stand alongside the likes of Mogane, Vincent Bones, Heinz Winckler, Anke Pietrangeli, Karin Kortje, Jody Williams, Jason Hartman, Sasha-Lee Davids, Dave van Vuuren, Khaya Mthethwa and Musa Sukwene.Those who watched the finale at Carnival City Top Arena in Brakpan in November bore witness to the excited but confused look on Noma s face when she was announced the winner. I was shocked. I didn t hear exactly what ProVerb said. It was only when Valentine, who was in the top 10 with us, came running to me that I registered that I was announced as the winner, she said.Born to parents Busisiwe and Muntu Khumalo in Ulundi, the bubbly woman, who matriculated from Maritzburg Christian School in 2012, says that she has been singing for as long as she can remember.She is also part of Acoustiq Assassins , a local band that was formed in 2014. She said that she was inspired by her students to enter Idols this year. I grew up in a house that was full of inspiration. My parents influenced my siblings and I greatly, although their roles differed, she said.She said that while her mother was more relaxed and allowed them to follow their dreams, her father was focused on their getting an education before anything else. Despite her father s focus on the straight and narrow, her mother convinced Noma to join a church choir. My father advised me to get a qualification before going into music. I was part of the church choir from a very young age. Even in high school I was known as the girl who was always singing. As a student teacher I am involved in teaching music at my school, she said.Though she plans to pursue music beyond Idols, Noma said she is still determined to complete her bachelor of education degree, which she is doing at Unisa.She said the highlight of the competition for her thus far has been the relationships she has formed. The musical exposure and knowledge of the entertainment industry imparted to me are also some of my biggest highlights The support from everyone has been amazing, I always have people sending me messages of support on Facebook and Twitter and I try to respond to each one. It s all been so overwhelming, but I am eternally grateful, she said.Noma s Idols original single Want It To Feel Like It Did With You debuted during the show and she also received the opportunity to shoot a music video for it. She is now recording her first album, due to be released through Gallo Records.She said she found the recording process enthralling. The set of my video was a completely different atmosphere. Everyone was just excited to be there. It was amazing to work with Charl Fraser, the director, and seeing everything come together and come to life. I enjoyed every hour and every minute of being there, she said.She said her most memorable song during the competition was her performance of Beyonc s Daddy Lessons. It was also an honour to perform with Nathi during the finals. I d only ever seen him on TV and heard him on the radio. I had such a super fan moment backstage. I was in shock I didn t believe he was actually singing with me. He s such a legend, she said.Despite her record breaking run in Idols, Noma still has to deal with petty sexism from some of South Africa s twitterati , who seem to be fixated with her body shape rather than her performance.However, Noma, who bagged more than a million rands worth of prizes in the competition,was undeterred by the critics who tweeted about her body size. I m confident with my body. I had to stay off Twitter because of the things people were saying about me. People were saying rude things about my weight. She said she felt consoled that at least most people on Facebook and Instagram were sympathetic. One of the judges, Unathi, realised that something was wrong. That is when she came through for me. Her words motivated me after she told me to just stay off Twitter and to focus on the reason I was in the competition, she said. Some things you can t really change and some people will attack you for that. With my personality, negativity is something I m not used to. Now I know that there are people who like you and those who just don t, she said.kutullom@thenewage.co.za