Former SABC board member Ronnie Lubisi has disclosed how Communications Minister Faith Muthambi pushed through the appointment of Hlaudi Motsoeneng as the broadcaster s chief operating officer.He said due process was not followed in the appointment, neither was the SABC s human resources section involved. Lubisi was the first witness to give evidence on the second day of the ad hoc committee inquiry into the SABC board in Parliament yesterday.Lubisi said at her first meeting with the board in 2014, the new Communications Minister, Muthambi, introduced herself. She said Motsoeneng should be permanently appointed as chief operating officer because he had been acting for too long.This was despite the fact that then public protector Thuli Madonsela s report into the SABC, which had called for disciplinary action against Motsoeneng, was in the board s possession.Lubisi said another meeting, followed in July 2014. Board members were called to this meeting under false pretences, not knowing that the real reason for the alleged special meeting was to appoint Motsoeneng. The minister was not present. But she was around. I think she was waiting somewhere. Her name was used to call the special board meeting. If my memory serves me right, she came in at the end to greet us, Lubisi said.At the meeting, he said, board members were told it would be recommended to the minister that Motsoeneng should be appointed. He was appointed the following day. Lubisi had voted against the proposal because it did not make sense. They have policies. Those policies were not adhered to. I don t think there s any policy of the SABC which allows a person just to be picked from the streets. In Madonsela s report, Lubisi said the SABC had decided to ask various committees, such as the audit committee, to look at the document. However, the corporation also held a parallel process unbeknown to us with lawyers appointed to dissect the report and come to findings .He said he could not recall that the board deciding that legal opinion given would become its position. What I m saying is that a legal firm might have been appointed to give a legal opinion. But the process that the board took was that chairpersons of committees would come with recommendations. That process became nil in the end. I don t know who has written to the PP to say this is our response. That process, adopting that report as the position of the board, was not a rational thing. Lubisi said he wanted to pursue some of Madonsela s allegations of more wrongdoing at the SABC, but this started his own downfall. He was forced off the board allegedly because he had a conflict of interest. There was no substance to these allegations. We re going to court if this committee was not set up. It s unfortunate that the people who let us down were the communications portfolio committee. We wrote to them. I feel very confident that there is no conflict, I can go to court. On the breakdown of corporate governance, Lubisi told the committee that SABC company secretary Theresa Geldenhuys had investigated board members for Muthambi. Her report was never given to the board. I don t expect a company secretary to have interaction with the minister. DENNIS CRUYWAGEN