The war of words between warring factions in the Umkhonto we Sizwe Veterans Association (MKMVA) has intensified with its Limpopo provincial leadership yesterday launching a scathing attack on former MK general Siphiwe Nyanda, accusing him of sowing divisions in the ANC s former military wing.MKMVA Limpopo provincial secretary Lulamile Jack said that an urgent council meeting by a group of aggrieved veterans led by Nyanda, sitting this weekend, was nothing more than a personal axe to grind against the leadership of the ANC. That council of Nyanda is illegal. An attack on Kebby (MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe) is a direct attack on President Jacob Zuma. The dishonesty displayed by them is not proper. He must stop marginalising our detachments. The grouping of former senior commanders and commissars was not a bona fide structure of MKMVA and thus their views carried no weight, Jack said. Most of those soldiers are out of the system, we rejected them. We fought for this country, side by side with the Cubans in Angola. They must learn to respect us. He s (Nyanda s) not a father figure of MK. Kebby is in charge. Jack s comments are a a response to the opposition group earlier this week describing the 55th anniversary celebrations of the ANC s military wing scheduled for tomorrow as a slap in the face of true MK combatants .This comes as the MKMVA plans to honour embattled SABC head of corporate affairs Hlaudi Motsoeneng, former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe and South African Airways (SAA) chairperson Dudu Myeni.Jack did not take kindly to the aggrieved veterans views on the MKMVA s award ceremony. Siphiwe is not going to boycott anything, he s not invited. They can boycott all they want but the event is continuing. For instance, in our province, we are bringing along three families that must be honoured. Nothing will be boycotted, the event is in full swing. Jack also slammed Nyanda s lifestyle. He s been hosting a lot of golf tournaments in the defence force. He must continue driving those smart cars of his and allow us to lead our soldiers, he charged.Spokesperson for the concerned veterans Archie Mogodiri, hit back at Jack. It s disingenuous for comrade Lulamile (Jack) to be attacking us. We are going to a national council to go and look at the problems that former combatants are facing. Comrades are still living in poverty and squalor and Maphatsoe has not done anything about that. Enough is enough, let other detachments be recognised. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za