MAMELODI Sundowns have promised to return stronger in the Fifa Club World Cup next year. But a return to the prestigious world club competition will take some effort for the Brazilians winning a successive CAF Champions League titles.Sundowns lost two matches at the Fifa showpiece but the experience has been massive for a team trying to grow its global brand. Their journey back to the World Club Cup starts when CAF conducts the draw for the 2017 preliminary rounds.According to the CAF website, the draw will be made in Cairo today and will include the CAF Confederations Cup schedules. South Africa is eligible to enter two teams, meaning Sundowns and Bidvest Wits, league runners-up, will be put in the hat along with some of the best sides on the continent.Some of the top sides include TP Mazembe and AS Vita of DR Congo, Tunisian sides Esperance and Etoile du Sahel, Egyptian giants Al Ahly and Zamalek, USM Alger and JS Saoura of Algeria, Wydad Casablanca and FUS Rabat of Morocco, Cameroonian sides UMS de Loum and Coton Sport and AS Tanda and Sewe Sport of Ivory Coast. Zanaco will return as the sole representative of Zambia after the 2016 semifinalists Zesco United drops to the lower CAF Confederation Cup instead.Township Rollers will represent neighbouring Botswana while Lioli will raise Lesotho s flag. Five-time champions Zamalek were losing finalists this year, going down 3-1 on aggregate to Sundowns and Wydad reached the semifinals. CAF have made several changes to the new competition, including cutting the two-leg qualifying phase from three rounds to two and doubled the number of qualifiers for the mini-leagues from eight to 16. I m proud of my team, though. They played as I expected them to, though there s obviously plenty of room for improvement, Sundowns coach Mosimane said. We ve learnt a few lessons. We have to drop back more quickly, we need to be fitter and we lack pace in the midfield, among other things. The tournament has at least given me a chance to see what my team can do in a global competition. I ve learnt a lot and when we get home we ll keep on working and try to make it back next year. kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha