South African businesses in Musina are sufering due to a strict import code imposed by the Zimbabwean government.OJ Lukhele of Musina Lodge said: Business in Musina in particular is bleeding, .The area has since seen the closure of a number of Chinese businesses. We are noticing closing of businesses the Chinese opened in 2010.They have now left the area in which they were doing business, a number of shops have closed down. Some of the others are only open for half of the day.The guest houses have not seen any business resulting in retrenchments, Lukhele said.Zimbabwe announced a ban on imports of various goods in June. These include cosmetics, cereals, cheese, canned goods and furniture, saying it needed to develop local industries.Since the law restrictions were introduced, Lukhele said the number of Zimbabwean shoppers has reduced by 50%. The ones who manage to come through do so with high risk as they don t use the right channels. The Limpopo River is no longer a deterrent with the drought allowing for easy crossing where there are no border controls, Lukhele said.However after the ban on imports in the middle of the year, Zimbabwe Industry Minister Mike Bimha said Zimbabwe does not have any trade dispute with South Africa and these are just safeguard measures .According to the Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries manufacturing sector survey for 2016, the imports ban has boosted the Zimbabwean manufacturing sector by 13.1%. This is a positive development largely resulting from the moves on the part of the government to protect local industry and the import priority list. Fifty four respondents recorded capacity below 50%, while 7% of the respondents recorded capacity utilisation of 100%, the survey said.Lukhele said South African businesses are not the only ones left to suffer as some businesses in Zimbabwe have also been closing down since then. The retail trade is affected followed by the hospitality side of the business. It is claimed that even in Zimbabwe the hotels are closing down with local traders having challenges in getting goods from Musina. The introduction of the Zimbabwe bond note last week Thursday will definitely result in hardship for both Zimbabwean traders and Musina businesses, Lukhele said.With all the changes that are been introduced by the Zimbabwean government, Lukhele said no one knows what will happen next. We are no longer sure of what will happen next. We have engaged our government, asking them to persuade our neighbours, but nothing has come to anything except assurances of engagements about these trade bans, Lukhele said.provinces@thenewage.co.za