The one fear that should keep you away from unsafe sex is the deadly HIV AIDS. If you don&#8217;t take the necessary precautions while having sex, you are making yourself prone to sexually transmitted infections. Here are ways you can enjoy safe sex:BYOC (Bring Your Own Condom) Don t rely on your partner to get condoms or lube. Always have your own supply, and make sure you check the expiry dates before use.Don t rush into high-risk sexual activities Don&#8217;t immediately indulge in high-risk sexual activities that involve exchange of bodily fluids. Take your time to understand your partner and build trust.Any changes in genital areas? Look out for any changes in your own or your man&#8217;s genitals. You should check for sores, unusual discharge or troubling odours.If you find it difficult or unnatural, don&#8217;t do it Many of us were taught that talking about sex isn t romantic or that nice girls don t do that. But we can, and we should and it obviously gets easier with practice.Using two condoms for better protection? People think using two condoms will give them double protection but it&#8217;s not so. As a matter of fact, using two condoms can cause friction between them and eventually rupture the two.Limit your number of partners The more people you are sexually involved with, the more you are at risk of developing sexually transmitted diseases. So limit your number of sexual partners. Don&#8217;t forget, every new partner you get intimate with may already have a history of other partners.Clean your sex toys, too You and your partner may turn to sex toys to add spice to your relationship. They cannot get you pregnant, but are capable of spreading STIs and other infections. Wash and sterilize your sex toys before using. It is also advisable to use condoms with sex toys. Do not share needles or pipes Drug paraphernalia is a thing and can be extremely dangerous. You may be adventurous but don&#8217;t share needles or pipes if you want to stay safe. It&#8217;s better to say NO and seem uncool than fall for a life threatening disease.This article first appeared on The Times of India