THE final instalment of the popular music series, Kaya FM Live at the Bassline, will tonight wrap up with a performance by SA s award-winning Afro folk musician Vusi Mahlasela.Speaking to The New Age in between his busy rehearsal schedule, the Mamelodi-based musician promised his fans an array of his popular hits that have made him a world-renowned musician.These include hits such as When You Come Back, Thula Mama, Woza, Say Africa and many others that have made Mahlasela a cultural and politcal icon. Basically I will showcase all of my work, my fans favourite songs to my most recent songs. I also plan to introduce a few surprise elements with new artists as well as some performers I have collaborated with over the years, he said.The performer also known as The Voice, does not shy away from tackling political and sociopolitical themes in his music, including calling for forgiveness and reconciliation.The singer and political activist has also promised more of the same potent stuff ahead of his return to the Bassline. I have always tapped into the authentic sounds and heritage of our forefathers. We need to be proud of our ancestors. As I have been saying for so many years in the song, When We Come Back, that Africa will return to its rightful owners and the bells shall ring and we will beat the drum. Though there is cause for celebration, Mahlasela feels his music and the music of his peers is under appreciated. I was hoping to hear more of our music on radio with the 90% clause but there is hardly any of it. I am not angry, but wish our children could be given an opportunity to learn from us, and get to tap into the music that comes before us.With his music earning him critical acclaim on the world stage as he prepares for a tour of Mexico in February and the US later on in the year, Mahlasela still longs for the good old days when he performed to local audiences across the country more often than he does now. It is always such a highlight to perform here at home, he said.Mahlasela is the brains behind the Soul Shine concept, which seeks to spread the ethos of ubuntu through music. His love for music was fuelled by listening to people singing songs of misery and hope at shebeens. He went on to create his own makeshift guitar from tin cans and a fishing line and taught himself to play before receiving formal guitar lessons at school.As his guitar-strumming skills improved, the young Mahlasela began singing popular songs, imitating his contemporary idols of the time.In 1981, Mahlasela joined the poetry group, The Ancestors of Africa. He then became a soughtafter performer at political rallies.-siyabongas@thenewage.co.za