In commemorating the third anniversary of Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela s death, we recommit to serving and honouring his legacy and the causes that he championed. This year s commemoration comes in the wake of the departure of another champion of the poor, internationalist revolutionary and global hero Fidel Castro.There can be no more poignant reminder of our debt to Madiba s legacy than a cursory reflection on Castro and the Cuban people s legacy and contribution in three key areas, unwavering patriotism, service to the people and international solidarity.This third anniversary affords us as good an opportunity as any to ponder and reflect on where we come from and where we are heading, but mostly it is an opportunity to recommit to the values and causes Madiba espoused. South African patriotism is probably at its lowest ebb since the dawn of democracy.Yet patriotism is the very edifice upon which Nkosi Dalibhunga premised his dreams of reconciliation, nation-building and social cohesion. Our experience has seen periods of waxing and waning. Among the highest peaks were the victorious Rugby World Cup of 1995 and the 2010 Fifa World Cup. But there have also been troughs.This anniversary of Nkosi Dalibhunga s passing is a time for reflection and honest assessment of where the South African project finds itself today.He was not self-serving, always deferring to the wisdom of the collective and he was dedicated to serving the people. He considered serving the people and being an agent of the will of the people, his highest calling in life. This was evident in everything he did and in all interactions with others, regardless of their social stature, or station in life.South African political life has become insipid. There is a sense of entitlement with too many public servants and political officebearers imagining that our freedom guaranteed the right of people to serve them rather than the other way around.The death of Castro, just days away from the anniversary of Madiba s passing, reminds us of the huge burden of debt we owe to him, the Cuban nation and indeed the global antiapartheid movement at large. They left no stone unturned to support our struggle for freedom, liberation, justice and peace. They did not flinch in the face of brutal apartheid, backed by their friends in the West. Our friends and allies stood in solidarity with us through our darkest days. Fidel, Yasser Arafat, Sam Njoma, Mualimo Julius Nyerere, our friends in Algeria, southern, East, Central and West Africa and from all continents made sacrifices in the course of flying the flag of international solidarity.We must learn from Cuba s post liberation experience and rededicate ourselves to flying the flag of international solidarity. Today, Cuban doctors, engineers, teachers and social workers continue to demonstrate the true meaning of international solidarity as they fight unemployment, disease, poverty and illiteracy on the African continent and wherever in the world the need arises.They give practical expression to the credo that we can never truly be free as long as there is a single suffering human being in the world .Madiba didn t support international solidarity in hushed tones. He challenged us to rise up from apathy and lethargy by saying that our freedom is incomplete without the freedom of the Palestinian people .He called the Palestinian struggle the greatest moral issue of our time , and beckoned us to be the moral compass for Africa and the world.Will we honour the legacy of Mandela, the way the Cuban nation has honoured Castro, through unflinching patriotism, dedication to serving South Africa and raising high the flag of international solidarity with the poor and suffering masses in Africa, the Middle East and Latin America?.Long live the legacy of president Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela!NKOSI ZWELIVELILENkosi Zwelivelile, Royal house of Mandela