The outcome of Mamelodi Sundowns matches at the Fifa World Cup, be it wins or losses, were always going to occupy the minds of players for months to come.This is because Sundowns were for the first time playing in a global tournament that demands a positive first impression.To this day, some months after the 2016 Rio Olympics match between South Africa and Brazil, midfielder Mothobi Mvala of Highlands Park is still unable to erase memories of his red card that ended up costing the national U-23 team.Denis Onyango, a man who has been reliable in goals for Sundowns, conceded what looked to be a soft opening goal against Kashima Antlers in the first match.He acknowledges he should have done better to deny Kashima striker Endo Yasushi.This is why the Uganda and Sundowns keeper wants to make amends if he is to start.The Brazilians are in action today at 9.30am against Asia and South Korean champions Jeonbuk Hyundai at the Suita Football Stadium. We had high expectations and we let the country and the continent down in our first match. We let in very soft goals, Onyango said It is a lesson for us. We will need to take our chances in the next match to win. We have to be positive for the next match. I am disappointed with the first goal. I should have done better. I have let the guys down. I am hoping to do much better in the next game and not come up with excuses. Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane said he will not be making wholesale changes to his team, opting to continue with a side he believes can get him results.Interestingly, the former Bafana Bafana coach is expecting a far tougher match from Jeonbuk than he did against Kashima. You know that I don t like changing things. We don t have to be emotional and start changing and chopping. I know where we went wrong and we need to fix that. We have to score goals, Mosimane said. This match will be difficult. They are the Asian champions. It will be more difficult than Kashima. But we are here to compete and to improve our product. This will be Sundowns last match at the Club World Cup.MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za