The bridge over the Bottelary River and the recently constructed section of Saxdowns Road between the Haasendal development and the intersection with Halleria Street has been opened to traffic.This 1.8km section of Saxdowns Road includes a new bridge over the Bottelary River spanning about 25m.The section of Saxdowns Road between the intersections with Helderrant Road and Church Street, which has been closed to traffic for some time to prevent rat-running through the adjacent suburbs of Haasendal, Amandalrug and Rouxville, has also been opened to traffic since the rat-running will no longer be an issue. Some technical issues delayed the opening of the road for slightly longer than expected, but these are now largely resolved and I want to thank residents for their patience these past few months while these technical matters were being attended to, the city s transport member of the mayoral committee, Brett Herron, said. I also wish to thank the developer, Amphoria, who was responsible for the construction of this road at this stage, utilising their bulk infrastructure contribution levies attributable to their current and future developments in the area. With the opening of the new Saxdowns Road the final and all-important missing link between Langverwacht and Bottelary Roads is now available to road users. I am confident that the new road infrastructure will assist in alleviating the worst peak-hour traffic congestion in this area as this new section of Saxdowns Road provides commuters with an alternative route to Langverwacht Road, Bottelary Road (M23) and Old Paarl Road (M101). All of these routes are heavily congested during the peak-hour periods. The new road infrastructure will also relieve the traffic volumes on Amandel and Van Riebeeck roads (R102), Herron said.Street lights have been provided along the new section of Saxdowns Road to improve visibility and safety. A pedestrian sidewalk has been constructed on one side of Saxdowns Road to improve pedestrian safety and, in addition, the shoulders of the new road have been constructed 1.2m wide, making the road user-friendly for cyclists and thereby promoting the city s non-motorised transport strategy and goals. The traffic signals at the intersection of Bottelary and Saxdowns Roads have been significantly upgraded and additional turning lanes have been added at this intersection, as well as at the intersection of Saxdowns and Sandalwood Roads. I am confident that these measures will significantly improve traffic flow and movement in the immediate suburbs and in the greater Kuils River area, Herron said. 701656-TNA Reporter