WITH local and international musicians set to grace the Aldo Scribante Race Circuit in Port Elizabeth on December 30, the Ebubeleni Music Festival is set to be one of the biggest music celebrations in the Eastern Cape.American R&amp;B singer Syleena Johnson is expected to make her return to the country for the fifth annual festival. Popular stars such as Mafikizolo, Tsepo Tshola, Ringo Madlingozi and US-born singer Monique Bingham will also be performing at the end-of-year gathering.Speaking to The New Age, one-half of radio and dance floor duo Sphectacula and DJ Naves, Sphectacula, promised music lovers a great time on the dance floor. We have not had a big show in PE in a while, he said. Music fans can expect the usual Sphectacula and Naves energy on stage as we play our set with lots of new dimensions added just for the people of PE.The DJ duo has had a great year, churning out hits and singles from their debut album, Kings Of The Weekend. The album received rave reviews with singles such as KOTW Anthem (featuring Professor), iWorry Yami (featuring Kayise Mnandi and others.Also sharing the stage with the Grammy-nominated Johnson will be South African chart toppers Vusi Nova, former Idols winner Musa, motswako rapper Fifi Cooper, TiMO ODV, Emtee, Phinda Matlala, NaakMusiQ and the best of Nelson Mandela Bay s local artists. KZN-born spinner Sphectacula said the duo were already working on their second album, which would feature collaborations with Big Nuz, Thebe and Mi Casa. We are going for a variety of sounds with the second album, as we have grown since our first offering, he said. We have added new elements such as gospel and R&amp;B to our original dance and kwaito elements from our first album. We have a clear understanding of our market as well as our sound and what we want to achieve with our music. As entrepreneurs, Sphectacula and DJ Naves have also ventured into venue ownership with their first club Icon Soweto in Pimville. For now we are at the testing phase, as the club opened just over four weeks ago. Once that phase is done, we ll do a proper launch. With the festive season upon us, Spectacular advised young people to not overindulge. Do what is best for you. Drink and party responsibly. Freedom comes with responsibility and knowing what is right, he said.-siyabongas@thenewage.co.za