Cheslyn Wagenaar is one of the small business entrepreneurs who is aiming high at fighting poverty and youth unemployment in Oudtshoorn.The 38-year-old family man believes that people should start investigating the possibility of starting their own businesses with the aim of providing jobs for the youth.Wagenaar started his part-time venture in 2011 and is operating from the comfort of his house s backyard room after he resigned from his job as a supervisor at a shoe factory in Bridgeton near Oudtshoorn. I couldn t survive with a low salary. I battled to convince my bosses to give me a salary rise and so I decided to resign. I had already learnt how to make shoes and anything from ostrich and crocodile skins, he said.Today the father of two manufactures shoes, sandals, belts, key holders and bangles from animal skins at his room in Thabo Mbeki Square in Oudtshoorn.He is hoping to develop his small business into a big entity where young unemployed people could get a job and be able to feed their families. We have a high rate of unemployment in our town and this has caused our youth to resort to alcohol and drugs. It s very sad to see young people losing hope because they are struggling to find a job. Wagenaar adds that he buys a large ostrich skin at the price of R1500 while a wide crocodile layer costs R1200 each. It s an expensive exercise to buy but the results can be good if you have the market he said.Men and women s belts are sold at R220 while the sandals go for R250. At this time of the year the sandals go fast. People like crocodile and ostrich because the skins last much longer and are very much comfortable to wear. The dad is now an independent manufacturer who is highly respected by the locals for his manners and humility.When The New Age visited the backyard factory, the soft spoken Wagenaar was busy cutting and cleaning the skins.His room is adorned with completed sandals, belts and bangles ready for the market. I am working in a very cramped room. It s hot here in summer and cold in winter. I created the space just to do this job. I am praying all day that one day I will get a much bigger space with an air-conditioner and a room to package my stuff. At the moment everything is packed together. But I am happy with the support I get from the community. They lift up my spirits every day they buy my products. The small entrepreneur has two young employees who collect the skins from the warehouse and help clean the room every week. I am hoping to develop this business to greater heights so that unemployed youths can work and feed their families. I am trying to open up all avenues so that these products can reach anyone anywhere around the country but there are still challenges because I need to build contacts everywhere to reach my clients. I know sometimes small business people compete with big businesses and it s difficult. All you need is confidence and perseverance. An Oudtshoorn resident, Oswald Meyer, said that black and coloured small entrepreneurs need maximum support from big business establishments to grow faster and effectively. It s a very serious concern because if there is no support from the locals and big businesses the entity struggles to grow faster. This man is doing a great job and therefore needs maximum support from the government, big businesses and the community, Meyer said.MPUMI KIVAprovinces@thenewage.co.za