A three-month-old twin baby girl died after being eaten by rats while her mother allegedly went out drinking in Mavimbela Section, Katlehong on the East Rand at the weekend.Angry community members yesterday said the 26-year-old mother left her child alone at home while she went to a shebeen with the other twin baby known as Lucky. The only thing she likes is going out partying in local shebeens, her landlady s daughter Noluthando Mtshali said.Mtshali is among several other homeowners who have shacks in their yard that they rent out. I just could not bring myself to go in and see what happened to this poor child, Mtshali said.However, those brave enough to see the ghastly remains of the little infant said the child could only have died a painful death. A neighbour, who was one of the first to see the child after her ordeal said the infant s tongue, eyes and fingers had been eaten by the rodents. Besides the missing body parts, the remains of her body had bites and wounds all over that were inflicted by the sharp teeth of the rats. This woman must rot in jail because she does not deserve to be a mother. Katlehong police spokesperson Capt Mega Ndobe confirmed the arrest of the woman who apparently had gone drinking, taking with her the boy twin of the deceased baby girl. I can confirm the little girl died after being eaten by rats. The mother has been arrested and is facing charges of child negligence and the case will be heard in court next year, Ndobe said.The landlady, Mama Sesi Mtshali, said the mother of the child was problematic. She said the woman came screaming from the shack shortly after discovering the remains of the child on Saturday morning but would not say she had left the baby alone. We have lots of rats in the area. She leaves the children alone all night long and they cry themselves to sleep, Mtshali said.The landlord said the woman had been her tenant since the beginning of the year. She said the twins had been discharged from hospital on Thursday after suffering from undisclosed ailments. Witnesses said it was not the first time she had left the twins on their own but it was the first time she had left only one child. When people were asking where the other child was, she would say it was in her sister s care. She came back in the early hours of the morning with a new boyfriend and they tried to break into the shack since she had lost the key and they found the baby dead, claiming that the child was burnt, the landlady s daughter said.After the woman s arrest, the father came to fetch the surviving twin who is now in the care of his new girlfriend. The mother always comes here drunk and locks the infants inside alone.When Lucky came here he looked like he had not eaten for days but he is fine now, the girlfriend said.NONDUMISO ZWANEnondumisoz@thenewage.co.za