The story of unskilled labour is one that has its core in the discovery of precious minerals in South Africa. When gold was discovered in 1886 on the Witwatersrand it lead to the establishment of a migrant labour system.And in the system there was the growth of an unskilled labour market and most significantly this market was populated by so-called foreign nationals. As a matter of fact, 60% of unskilled labour in the gold mines were Mozambicans.This shows that unskilled migrant labour has been part of the fabric of the historical texture of South African society. In 2014, Cosatu had some concerns about the amendments to the Immigration Regulations Act which took effect in May of that year.Cosatu argued that the new regulations were silent on unskilled and migrant labour, ignoring the history of centuries of migrant labour and the present situation where millions of unskilled migrant workers work in South Africa. The regulations provide for work visas for scarce skills. To get such visas both the employers and the Department of Labour have to certify that they cannot find persons with the relevant skills within South Africa and the South African Qualifications Authority has to certify the applicants qualifications. The overwhelming majority of millions of Basotho, Swazi, Mozambican, Zimbabwean, Malawian and other workers in South Africa are unskilled, working without work visas and plying their trades as farm workers, gardeners, domestic workers, mineworkers, traders and security guards, former Cosatu spokesperson Patrick Craven said at the time. Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla says that the 36% of unemployed workers are already struggling to finding long-term employment, a matter that affects unskilled migrant labour and unskilled South African workers. We support the government s skilled labour policies, whereby employers and the Department of Labour must confirm and prove that there are no available South Africans that can be employed before employing foreign labour. Pamla says that these workers are paid poverty wages with their labour and human rights abused knowing that these are desperate workers who accept the worst wages and conditions and will be too afraid to unionise or demand their rights.Unskilled workers include farm workers, gardeners, domestic workers, mineworkers, traders and security guards. Special arrangements must be made for countries like Lesotho and Swaziland which depend upon the remittances of their migrant workers in South Africa. In fact we should be looking at integrating those states into South Africa as they are not sustainable and in fact they are the same people as South Africans the spokesperson said, expressing a radical stance to the problem.Department of Home Affairs spokesperson Mayihlome Tshwete said there was a collective responsibility with other government departments to ensure that the employment of foreign labour does not have an adverse impact on the recruitment and employment of South Africans. The department presently does not have a specific policy on unskilled labour. However, the practice is that we do not issue work visas for unskilled labour except in a few special dispensations that the department has put into place such as the Zimbabwean special permits and the Lesotho special permits. The two dispensations were put in place to regularise unskilled nationals from the two countries who were working in the country illegally, Tshwete said.The department has gazetted a Green Paper on Migration which has a chapter on the management of immigrants with low skills for public comment. The process of consultation is still under way.TNA REPORTERnews@thenewage.co.za