A victory against Bidvest Wits was just what the doctor ordered for inform Cape Town City ahead of their Telkom Knockout cup final against SuperSport United, coach Eric Tinkler said.City have had two great results on the road as they build up to their maiden cup final on Saturday at the Peter Mokaba stadium.They drew against Kaizer Chiefs before edging Wits 3-2 on Friday and will go into the final brimming with confidence more especially that they also sit on top of Absa Premiership log three points ahead of second-placed SuperSport.Tinkler however, dismissed any thoughts that his side might be complacent in the final following their impressive run. I doubt it will happen (complacency) in these coming weeks because the boys know the importance of the final, Tinkler said. It was important that they understood the importance of the Wits result because not only now you go three points clear at the top, but going to that final is good knowing that you got a great result against a good team and facing against another good team. So that s building the confidence ahead of the final. City s good run of form has also been helped by the impressive form of captain Lebogang Manyama and Aubrey Ngoma.The duo have been combining well for Tinkler s charges during the good run of results while also finding the back of the net and supplying assists in the process.Tinkler explained how he has managed to get the best out of them. The work-rate from both of them has been phenomenal. There always been that fear that I m pushing them too hard but that has been a positive and it really made them to be in good condition. Physically you see Lebo making those sprints right at the death. I don t remember him doing that at his previous clubs. He is in a very good physical position and so is Ngoma. City s defence, however, is about Tinkler s only worry ahead of the final. His side has been conceding goals recently and will be working on that this week. I expect us to score, the problem is we are conceding soft goals, silly goals and we are gifting teams certain goals. So that s something we need to rectify, Tinkler said. There were situations where we were 1-0 down and knew that we would react and we did that. The boys are responding in a positive way. NEVILLE KHOZAnevillek@thenewage.co.za