Straying animals have been said to be responsible for adding to the number of road accidents in various parts of the province, forcing local authorities to issue a stern warning to the owners, that those who allow their animals to wander, will be dealt with harshly.This warning was issued by the provincial department of community safety, security and liaison during an interview with The New Age, following complaints by motorists in several areas, especially in Mmametlhake and neighbouring areas.The department said the neglected animals which include cattle and donkeys, will be impounded and released to the owners only after they have paid a penalty fee which will be a deterrent and help avoid endangering the lives of other people.When The New Age team arrived at Mmametlhake, they saw a number of stray donkeys wandering on the road. A concerned motorist, Jabu Komane from the nearby village of Nokaneng said their lives were in danger, especially when they were using the road at night because of the abandoned animals. He also complained that there were no street lights on the roads. We are indeed getting disturbed when using this busy road as a result of the frequently straying animals. Imagine driving and being killed because of the neglected animals. We are appealing to the police and relevant stakeholders to show no mercy on such animal owners because as soon as you crashed into the animal, its owner will not avail himself to avoid accountability, Komane said.Another motorist Maria Lekolane said: The abandoned cattle and donkeys are taking innocent people s lives and deserve to be clamped down because their owners are seemingly violating the traffic rules. I am a taxi driver and regularly use this road and this is putting more lives in danger. Let the relevant authorities come to our rescue before more lives are lost as we are in the festive season with more vehicles. Joseph Mabuza the spokesperson for the MEC for community, safety, security and liaison said the department was worried about the number of straying animals since they were undermining their efforts to enhance road safety. The department is working together with its stakeholders including the police and municipalities to impound such neglected beasts in order to promote road safety. It is the responsibility of the owners to always ensure that their animals are under guard. We want to assure the owners that such behaviour will not be accepted since we are responsible for promoting road safety in the province, Mabuza said.Dr JS Moroka local municipality s spokesperson, Mmasabatha Ramatseke said: As the municipality, we are even concerned about road users being killed by the animals although we do not have strict by-laws on straying animals. However, we are urging our traditional leaders and community at large to ensure that the animals are grazing on properly fenced land to avoid accidents. francen@thenewage.co.za