Thousands of new home owners will for the first time spend their Christmas holidays in the dignity of their new homes this year thanks to the provision of housing subsidies by the Eastern Cape department of human settlements. At end of October this year, a total of 8856 new houses were completed by the department and 6816 sites were serviced across the province.The department has ensured title deeds have been given to beneficiaries. An amount of R1.37bn has been spent of the R1991457 allocated budget. The department also approved of 316 finance linked individual subsidies for the GAP market, Lwandile Sicwetsha, director of corporate communications at the Eastern Cape human settlements department said. To date 8070 title deeds have been transferred to rightful beneficiaries in the municipalities of Raymond Mhlaba 4999, Nxuba 178, Ndlambe 23, Great Kei 1009, Nxuba Yethemba 1 265, Mqanduli 492, BCM 24, and Nelson Mandela Bay 80. The department has completed two state of the art multipurpose facilities built in the villages of Thaba Chicha and Deberha. Both facilities were handed over to the municipalities of Matatiele and Engcobo in July and October. Sicwetsha said the social housing programme delivered 368 units that were all complete and fully tenanted in Fairview Link and a total of 150 units have been completed in the Willowdene social housing project. Our programme of project enhancements for community integration was successfully rolled out in 171 households in the Buffalo City metro and Mnquma municipality which received fencing and vegetable seeds. The houses are for the elderly, disabled, military veterans and people who qualify for housing subsidies.For rural houses, water harvesting tanks and latrines have been provided to ensure equity in public services. We are humbled that people trust in us as the ANC government. We are glad we are doing the right thing. Rural projects are doing very well this year and we are over-achieving on targets and the quality of houses, Eastern Cape MEC for human settlements Helen Sauls-August said, Our focus is on the rural areas and it is paying off as we address the needs of the people. LONDEKA DLAMINIprovinces@thenewage.co.za