&nbsp;The Nelson Mandela Legacy Cup T20 clash between the Proteas and the Springboks at Newlands Stadium this afternoon at Newlands Stadium in Cape Town seems like a gimmick but it s gaining in popularity.It also has serious implications as the match is played to honour the country s founding president and aims to raise funds for the Nelson Mandela Foundation.Looking ahead of the clash yesterday, Proteas all-rounder JP Duminy said he was relishing the prospect of facing the Springboks in what would be the third edition of the clash. It is obviously a great occasion for both the Springboks and Proteas, Duminy said. I have been part of the past two games so far, where in one I was the captain and the other I was a commentator so it s good to be a player this time round. It s all for a good cause and being a true South African sportsman. It s always nice to give back to the South African public so we are all looking forward to it. The Proteas are made up of several players who recently beat Australia 2-1 in their Test series Down Under with the likes of captain Faf du Plessis, Hashim Amla and Kyle Abbott all joining Duminy.The Springboks are headed by prominent international stars Patrick Lambie and Damian de Allende and have been bolstered by the inclusion of former Proteas captain Graeme Smith as player/coach. Duminy is also expecting Smith, who played in 117 Test matches and scored over 9000 runs, to provide some much needed steel to the Springboks line-up. It is a bit difficult when the Boks claim one of ours. Graeme is in there, so we are going to take the Aussie route and come a bit harder at them seeing that they have got him on their side. Without a doubt, the bowlers will be going full tilt at him, added Duminy.Another national 100-cap plus hero in the mix for the Boks is former captain Jean de Villiers. I have also been selected for two games previously.The first one I felt sick on the day and was unable to play and in the second game I got a small little knee injury a week before so couldn t play either. It s great to be involved in this one because the amazing thing about Mandela is how he united this country, De Villiers said.Mahlatse Mphahlele|mahlatsem@thenewage.co.za