Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete knows where to find love in the arms of Nape Khomo, the businessman she married in September but not among members of the DA.Love, she said, was not what she expected from the party led by Mmusi Maimane.Her words were in response to DA chief whip John Steenhuisen who slated her in his end-of-the-year reflections. Steenhuisen blamed her for Parliament not being able to operate optimally.He said she was conflicted and compromised because she was national chairperson of the ANC and protecting President Jacob Zuma in the House. Steenhuisen called for her head, claiming she was not objective.Looking serene in a purple outfit, Mbete responded in the dining room usually graced by members of Parliament, but which she, deputy speaker Lechesa Tsnoli and Thandi Modise chairperson of the National Council of Provinces, used for the occasion. As political leaders playing different roles, for instance the role of speaker, we would not survive if we took what is said about us personally. There are no issues of carrying a lot of regret or pain. I don t feel bad. I don t feel the DA owes me some love or something. I understand they are the opposition. They will perpetually look at ways of how they deal with me. You have to understand within the historical context of the politics of the day, both in the life of the party and politics broadly. Reflecting on the past year, Mbete said it had been a short one owing to the August local government elections.Because of the elections, both houses of Parliament had focused attention in the first session of the year on President Zuma s state-of-the nation address in February and also on the budget that was presented in February.Nevertheless snap debates took place in the National Council of Provinces as well as in the National Assembly.Joint debates were also held. The Assembly was able to pass 10 bills, which included the Revenue Laws Amendment Bill, the Immigration Amendment Bill, and the Higher Education Amendment Bill.The NCOP dispensed with 19 bills. President Zuma also returned some bills to Parliament.The year also witnessed the Constitutional Court telling Parliament how seriously flawed and unconstitutional its approach to the matter of Nkandla was. In March it ruled that the remedial findings by the public protector were binding.Delivering the judgment on behalf of the court, Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng declared President Zuma had failed to uphold, defend and respect the Constitution when he ignored then publicprotector Thuli Madonsela s findings on upgrades to his homestead.The Constitutional Court also ruled that a resolution passed by the National Assembly, based on the findings of Police Minister Nathi Nhleko, which exonerated President Zuma from liability, was unlawful and inconsistent with the Constitution.The Nkandla judgment was a symbolic moment for South Africa, the ANC and Parliament.The ANC were to see in August s local government elections how far it had drifted from its support base and how serious that constituency was about showing its displeasure with the party.The beneficiaries were opposition parties, which cobbled together coalitions in Tshwane, Johannesburg, Nelson Mandela Bay and Mogale City.For the first time since 1994, the ANC found the corridors of power not occupied only by its representatives.No matter how the ANC has spun the results, it has given the DA and other opposition parties a platform to prove their claims that they can manage local government better than the ruling party.Given the EFF sided with the DA and others to thwart the ANC, there s little love between the EFF and the ANC.And given the vitriol that the EFF regularly pours on the ANC in Parliament, the ANC was asking far too much when it tried to engage the EFF in talks intended to keep governing municipalities under ANC management.Speaking about the impact of the Constitutional Court s Nkandla decision, deputy speaker Tsenoli said: There is no questioning the design of our constitutional landscape. Courts determine what is constitutional.What we said is we ve now learnt some bitter lessons. We think we should be judged how we deal with this subsequent to that court decision. We will make mistakes. Our mistake is that we are human. Modise said: The big lesson is never to repeat that which is not correct. Both Tesnoli and Modise stepped into the breach for Mbete.The deputy speaker said of the DA campaign to have Mbete sacked: When a presiding officer is said to have acted with bias we expect structures in Parliament to deal with that.That campaign started before she took office. It s difficult for us to believe it s not an ongoing campaign. Modise said: Our job is to protect the programme of Parliament. In the protection of that programme we must protect any speaker who is scheduled to speak at the time they must speak. The presiding officer will do everything in his or her power to ensure that that person starts and ends on time. Therefore the feeling that when you call the house to order you are protecting a particular person is wrong. We must do so without fear of criticism. We must do so sometimes at the expense of our own parties. Dennis CruywagenDennis Cruywagen is The New Age parliamentary correspondent