Highveld Lions have been boosted by the availability of Proteas Test batsman Temba Bavuma for their crunch CSA T20 Challenge clash against Titans at SuperSport Park in Centurion today. Lions arrive in Pretoria for the anticipated Jukskei derby enjoying a good run of form having won three successive matches, placing them third on the table. I am very pleased how we have come back in the past few games, Lions coach Geoffrey Toyana said. It was very tight in our five-run win over Warriors on Sunday, but that s the nature of T20 cricket. We have managed to turn it around and I am quite happy that we are alive with three games to go. We will try to take it one game at a time and see where that takes us. This match is another test for Lions captain Aaron Phangiso, who was thrown into the deep end to lead the side at the beginning of the season and seems to be acclimatising to the role while also contributing with the ball. Titans won the first round meeting in a game that marked the start of a run of five straight wins for Mark Boucher s men and Toyana hopes to be able to get one over the Titans this afternoon. They beat us in our own back yard and hopefully we can do the same. Both teams will be under pressure because of the tightness on the log, but it will be a matter of whoever pitches up on the day, Toyana said.While Lions are enjoying a good run, Titans will be looking to stop the rot after losing two matches in succession which has seen their lead at the top of the log narrowed to just one point with three match days remaining in the round robin stage. Boucher has stuck with the same side that lost to Warriors by six wickets on Friday at home and AB de Villiers and Morne Morkel must wait for the trip to East London on Sunday against the Warriors to make an appearance. It s getting tight at the top, but we remain in control of our own destiny, Boucher said. If we win our next two games, we should get a home final. So it is close, but that s how T20 cricket is designed. We are in a position where we don t need to rely on anyone and the plan is to secure a home final. mahlatsem@thenewage.co.za-Mahlatse Mphahlela