The North West provincial government is continuing with efforts to bring the Taung Skull back to the province.MEC for rural, environment and agricultural development Manketse Tlhape said the process of returning the world-famous skull to the North West is being held back by the construction of the Taung Skull World Heritage Site, which is yet to be completed. Tlhape said the site was undergoing a facelift to make it more appealing. We are constructing infrastructure on the site. The facelift will assist us in generating revenue through tourism. We want to ensure that more tourists flock to the area and use it as our hub. We have not discussed the return of the Taung Skull yet from Wits University. However, we will engage with relevant authorities. We still believe that Taung Skull must return to its origins and benefit the community of Taung, Tlhape said.The Taung Heritage Site is of enormous scientific importance. It was at the Buxton limestone quarry in 1924 that the lime-encrusted skull was unearthed.After workers uncovered the skull, it was kept as a curio before being identified as belonging to an extinct primate, at which point it was shown to Prof Raymond Dart. In 1925 he proposed that the skull belonged to a species that he dubbed Australopithecus Africanus the southern ape of Africa.The Heritage Site hosts a monument to the discovery and an old mine tunnel in the area has been opened up for exploration in the hopes of discovering more fossils.The discovery of the skull and the identification of it has been heralded as one of the most significant archaeological events, the most important anthropological fossil of the 20th century and completely overturned contemporary theories of human evolution, which were based on the fallacious Piltdown Man.The find provided compelling evidence that humanity originated in Africa and not in Europe, as was believed at the time. It dated the split between human and modern ape ancestors to more than a million years earlier than previously believed and was important in debunking pseudoscientific theories that Africans were a missing link between ape and man.The Taung site is not only of immense archaeological importance. From the limestone cliffs at the head of the valley, a constant flow of clear water flows through a succession of attractive pools in the ancient valley.The azure Blue Pools are surrounded by picturesque caves and streams. This is a popular hiking, abseiling and picnic destination.Khuitsemang Diseko