The Hawks have asked the standing committee on public Accounts (Scopa) to intervene as they battle to get crucial information from the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC).This emerged in a meeting between Scopa and law enforcement agencies in Parliament last week.Scopa chairperson Themba Godi said the Hawks had told Scopa they were not receiving full cooperation from the FIC when investigating cases involving financial crime. They said that to get such information they had to wait for months and this has a huge impact on their investigations, he said. It is the duty of Parliament that we assist law enforcement agencies in fighting corruption and executing their mandate. Tensions have been brewing between the Hawks and the FIC over access to documents relating to allegations of corruption and money laundering against Gupta-linked companies.This is after the EFF and AfriForum filed charges against companies linked to Oakbay following Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan s application for a declaratory order in the North Gauteng High Court.In past weeks, Gauteng Hawks head Lt-Gen Prince Mokotedi failed to access the documents into suspicious bank transactions linked to Oakbay after he sent his team three times to the FIC.However, Godi said a meeting would be scheduled with the FIC and Hawks officials to harmonise their relationship in an effort to fight crime. The Hawks claimed that even after they applied for Section 205, they are still not getting information from the FIC, Godi said. And we know the FIC has information at the push of a button. The New Age has learnt that the Hawks are still battling to get similar papers attached in the Gordhan application from the FIC.Hawks spokesperson Brig Hangwani Mulaudzi said they had raised the matter in a context of accounting to Scopa on an ongoing investigation. We were explaining challenges in our investigation into various cases, he said.But the FIC has dismissed reports that it was not cooperating. We can categorically state that the FIC has never given copies of reports on suspicious or unusual transactions to investigators or politicians. Any suggestion of such allegations is incorrect. The minister s application contained a certificate from the FIC and not the actual, confidential, suspicious and unusual transaction reports, it said.PETER RAMOTHWALApeterr@thenewage.co.za