A group of concerned commissars and former MK combatants are eyeing amendments to the ANC s constitution.Briefing the media yesterday on the outcomes of the aggrieved MK veterans national council meeting, member of the MK steering committee Thabang Makwetla said the group of veterans would seek an audience with the ANC to present its council resolutions. The resolutions include changes to be made to the ANC s constitution. Broadly within the membership of the ANC, there is agreement that the organisation does have weaknesses and those weaknesses speak to, among other things, practices which allow for the abuse of members and the abuse of processes. A discussion must be entertained and sponsored to say in what way the constitution can be reviwed with respect to procedures and structures be reviewed in a way that closes these loopholes within the management of the organisation, Makwetla said.He said that he believed that the concerned MK veterans group turnaround strategy for the ANC would help to resolve the crisis within the ANC. The ANC as presently constituted may actually benefit from the introduction of other bodies and structures in its constitution that will assist to improving the management of the organisation, Makwetla said.Makwetla s comments come hard on the heels of a national council meeting by the group of aggrieved veterans at the weekend. A group of ANC stalwarts and veterans who called for a national consultative conference were also in attendance to shoulder support for the former MK combatants.Former MK general Siphiwe Nyanda echoed Makwetla s sentiment regarding the necessity of a review of the ANC s constitution. We accordingly declared to call for a review of the ANC constitution. We are going to request a meeting to report on the council after the council adopted resolutions and recommendations that will be forwarded to and discussed with the leadership of the ANC, Nyanda said.He said that the former MK combatants would discuss their ideas withANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe. We will go back to the secretarygeneral of the ANC and the leadership of the ANC to present the suggestions. We believe there are resolutions that will help the ANC to address the challenges that it faces, Nyanda said.Nyanda said that the ANC s period of crisis compelled the former MK combatants to help the ruling party to resolve its challenges constructively. We were worried about the state of the ANC, we were worried about the state of MK Military Veterans Association, we were worried about the state of the veterans league. The fact that the ANC has experienced a period of decline in support from the electorate made it urgent for us to intervene, he said.bonolos@thenewage.co.za