GAUTENG is in the midst of a water crisis, with worse to come unless the second phase of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project is completed.So says Mike Muller, a visiting adjunct professor at Wits University s school of governance and former member of the National Planning Commission. Mullet predicts critical water shortages from 2020 to 2025 unless the project is completed. They are being aggravated by the policies of the Minister of Water and Sanitation, Nomvula Mokonyane, who has deliberately delayed phase 2 by more than two years in order to favour particular companies, he said As a result, the main job, the design of the dam and permanent tunnels have not even started. The province uses 4098 million litres of water a day for domestic use and has reduced its average daily water use by some 602 million litres a day since September. The province has not been declared a disaster area like other provinces but water demand has escalated beyond what the province is able to supply.Muller said part of the problem was highlighted by the auditor-general s finding that the Department of Water and Sanitation had incurred huge irregular expenditures, yet it was given a clean audit report. He said Mokonyane was outsourcing irregularity . This trend of outsourcing procurement decisions has resulted in the number of people without reliable water supplies increasing substantially at the same time that department spending has also gone up. Clearly something is wrong, Muller said.The department has, however, vowed to continue building infrastructure as per the country s water requirements. This includes building dams where and when necessary. It is important to note that Gauteng receives its water from rivers and sources outside of itself, such as rivers in other provinces, department spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said. As such, it is always part of the department s work to find water sources that will keep supplies to Gauteng at an optimum. These are primarily from rivers like the Orange, the Vaal and from shared watercourses and projects like the Lesotho Highlands Water Project, he said without addressing the delay of the project.Gauteng s three metropolitan and seven local municipalities are serviced by water services authorities (WSAs) and water services providers (WSPs).Rand Water acts as a bulk WSP, providing 83% of water to all Gauteng municipalities. Dr Anthony Turton, a private water expert, says in an article that South Africa s economy has been built on externalising all the costs of the mining industry.The results of this reliance on mining are now being seen in environmental, social and water damage, he says. With many of the water catchment areas ruined by mining, the country will have to start recycling all of its water if it is to survive, Turton said, adding that recycling water is particularly important for Gauteng, which sits on a plateau where all new water has to be brought uphill. This is particularly worrying considering the province s water supply figures.Gauteng receives on average 48 billion cubic kilolitres of rainfall every year. The province has 38 billion kilolitres of water available but its projected water demand by 2035 is expected to rise to 63 billion kilolitres a year.This means that procuring reliable and sustainable outside water supplies, as well as reducing the amount of water polluted by industry, will be essential to maintaining Gauteng s population and economy.Dr Anja du Plessis, project leader of the water conservation and management focus group in Unisa s geography department, says South Africa s freshwater resource status is under immense pressure due to a growing population and an expanding economy. Practically all of South Africa s freshwater resources, including those from rivers, man-made dams and groundwater sources, had already been fully allocated by 2005, she said. Concerning the future demand for water, it has been predicted that South Africa will suffer serious water shortages in 2020. In addition, given the current and anticipated future growth rates of the population and trends in socio-economic development, Du Plessis says it s estimated that South Africa s freshwater resources will be unable to sustain the present patterns of water use and discharge. It is estimated that the country s total requirements for water use will double over the next 30 years, she said. Major industrial development and urban settlement have taken place in regions where water resources are not readily available and have resulted in substantial potential impacts on the quality of water in the country, which is already limited in terms of supply. -KUTULLO MADISHA