The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) yesterday rubbished the Farlam Commission of Inquiry recommendations into the Marikana massacre saying its remedial actions were reduced to paper tigers.Briefing the media in Johannesburg, Amcu president Joseph Mathunjwa said that while the union welcomed President Jacob Zuma s announcement that the government would be compensating the families of the Marikana victims, Amcu was not convinced that the Farlam Commission of Inquiry got to the crux of who was responsible for the killings. As Amcu we are on record for saying that the Farlam Commission of Inquiry was totally inadequate in getting to the truth of what happened at Marikana. The Farlam Commission failed to find the real perpetrators of the massacre, those who gave the orders to the ones that pulled the triggers. Mathunjwa accused the government of wriggling its way out of taking responsibility by finding easy scapegoats in the form of senior police officers . We know that the decision to break the strike of the heroic Lonmin workers could only have been taken at the highest level of the state. Furthermore, the bosses of Lonmin are not facing any level of accountability for their role in the massacre. We know that they urged the state to intervene, provides logistical support to the police and have spectacularly failed to hold their managers and directors to account, to compensate the victims and address the very causes of the strike. Mathunjwa s comments come against the background of Zuma saying that the senior police officers who were probed for alleged offences linked to the killing of 34 striking Lonmin workers in August 2012 had been charged.He said various government departments were ready to implement the Farlam Commission of Inquiry recommendations.Mathunjwa, making reference to the Department of Mineral Resources saying it would take Lonmin to task for promising to provide hostel accommodation for the company s workers, said that the department s threat to revoke Lonmin s mining licence was not enough. This threat will never address the exploitation faced by the working class in South Africa in particular at Lonmin. These threats by the state through the department is a knee-jerk approach by the state to avoid and protect the neo-liberal economic policies that persist. Mathunjwa said the government should set up a new commission to find out who was responsible for the killings at Marikana. It s not about the money, it s about the truth, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za