Ethekwini mayor Zandile Gumede has highlighted the provision of piped water to more than 1500 homes in the city as one of her main achievements in the 100 days in which she has been at the helm in the council. In addition to that, working with various stakeholders such as Umgeni Water and the department of water and sanitation, the municipality has managed to keep water flowing in taps during the ongoing drought, Gumede said.Gumede, who in the August 3 local government elections made history by becoming the first woman to preside over eThekwini municipality, which has an annual budget of R40bn and also oversaw the launch of the anti fraud and corruption hotline to assist the council to root out corruption.The initiative is partly a response to the 2013 Manase report that found that municipality transactions of more than R500m were questionable.The report said the awarding of tenders in the municipality was riddled with corruption.Gumede, a veteran councillor with more than 20 years of local government experience, said the launch of the anti fraud hotline was accompanied by a strong warning to city officials as well as councillors. I made it clear that anyone who transgresses good business principles with the city, be it a member of the executive committee, a councillor, any member of staff or private companies trading with the city, they will face the full might of the law. I have also spearheaded the merger of the finance committee with the executive committee to strengthen my political oversight role and guidance over the financial affairs of the municipality. The merger will enhance accountability and transparency. Apart from weak financial and governance control, Gumede has also inherited an administration battling to deal with the twin challenges of unemployment and poverty.While she conceded that there could not be any overnight solutions to the economic hardships faced by a majority of the city s 3.7 million residents, she said the council s ambitious small business empowerment programme that would go a long way towards addressing poverty and unemployment. There was training in the information communication technology sector for 200 township women in business as well as the technical and soft skills training of 80 township construction businesses. Information dissemination workshops have also been held with more than 400 township businesses while 300 youth-owned businesses attended the Inkunzi Isematholeni workshop. On the city s social ills ranging from drug abuse to prostitution, Gumede alluded to the municipality s recently launched multidisciplinary task team to clamp down on the problems. The team was established in August and consists of senior managers from various units who meet regularly to discuss and find an integrated approach to dealing with social ills. Clive Ndou