IN a country where thousands of children are orphaned, there is an acute lack of prospective adoptive parents.Cultural beliefs are among the factors that discourage potential adoptive parents from adopting. There are insufficient numbers of prospective adoptive parents who would prefer to adopt black children, although the majority of adoptable children available in South Africa are black, Lumka Oliphant, spokesperson for the Department of Social Development, said. The concept of adoption is also not fully embraced in some communities due to cultural beliefs. Figures from the department show that the number of children being adopted increased last year compared to the previous year. According to the Adoption Register, 1 699 children were adopted in 2012-13, 1 452 were adopted in 2013-14 and 1 651 children were adopted in 2014-15.Earlier this year, the department said that there were 447 adoptable children and 383 prospective adoptive parents who were registered on the Register on Adoptable Children and Prospective Adoptive Parents.Oliphant has also cited a shortage of social workers as the most pressing challenge hindering the adoption process. The biggest challenge is the shortage of adoption social workers in South Africa, since the departmental social workers are excluded by the Children s Act of 2005 from rendering adoption services. The department is in the process of amending the Children s Act to allow government social workers to render this service, Oliphant said.The National Adoption Coalition of South Africa s Katinka Pieterse said that a correct match between a child and parents, as well as the rights of the child, are sacrosanct . We have seen examples on social media of desperate mothers advertising children for adoption , or unregistered and unaccredited baby homes selling children to unknowing parents. Abductions are a reality. Dealing directly with a birth parent without an accredited social worker and accepting a child from a public servant without going through the legal adoption process is, from a legal perspective, abduction, Pieterse said.As a same sex couple wanting to adopt a child, Victoria Boucher and partner Liz John faced severe homophobia. Our first experience of trying to adopt was unpleasant. Child welfare in Durban made it clear that they would rather give the child to a single mother than a same sex couple. We know another same sex couple who adopted through a private agency and they did not experience what we went through, Boucher said. We wanted a child and we did not have easy access to a sperm donor. After four years of trying to fall pregnant, we reconsidered adoption, she said. However, Boucher says that becoming a parent has been worth all the trouble it took. Our daughter is great. She knows we love her. She does well at school, she said.Despite this, the couple acknowledged that adoption does come with certain difficulties. She s noticed that she is brown and we are not. She knows that other kids have a mum and a dad, she said.For some parents, adoption takes more than two years to be concluded. Oliphant said that the same factors that hinder adoption, such as a lack of social workers, help to create the adoption delay. The length of the adoption process can be attributed to a variety of issues including that it is a legal process and all applicable legal requirements in terms of the Children s Act 38 of 2005 must be adhered to before an adoption order can be granted. For example, in the case of abandoned children, the social worker must publish a newspaper article in an effort to trace the parents of the child, she said. She said the department has employed more people to address parent screening backlogs.-ZODIDI MHLANA