Parliament s finance oversight body, the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa), has called on the Hawks, National Treasury. South African Revenue Service and auditor-general to add their investigative skills to its fight against corruption.At a press briefing yesterday, Scopa chairperson Themba Godi said the oversight committee would start 2017 by calling in several state-owned entities from next month to account for fruitless and wasteful expenditure.Among them are Denel, Transnet, Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa and the SABC.Godi said: Firstly, I want to stress that as a committee we resolved that the fight for good governance and accountability should be moved to where it rightfully belongs: Parliament. In fulfilling its mandate to hold the accountable, Godi said: Parliament has to ensure the work of its committees was not mere annual rituals. This year we took a decision we were going to focus on particular issues; irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Our main mandate is to protect the public purse. That is where our focus has been. Last week Scopa resolved that it also wants to look at the financial health of the government departments and entities by examining their commitments, liabilities and accruals. We also want to focus more on employees doing business either with departments or the state, Godi said.Asked about specific cases that the Hawks were following up, Godi said so far cases had been identified in the Department of International Relations and the Department of Cooperation and Basic Education.Scopa has also agreed with the State Information Technology Agency that two matters should be referred to the Hawks. There were also a number of cases involving Prasa. We have taken a decision that if we are going to end impunity and the lack of consequence management it s Parliament that must take responsibility. Parliament was no longer at the mercy of accounting officers and waiting for them to refer cases to the police. It is because we want to ensure that the fight against corruption is located where it rightfully belongs; Parliament. Asked if the former CEO of the South African Social Security Agency, Virginia Petersen, would be investigated Godi said: What we have is a number of issues in that entity in procurement. Our interest is why were these decisions taken and who stood to benefit. If it was the former CEO or some other official that is what the investigation will tell. DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za