A HIGH level task team on the national minimum wage will convene to thrash out matters concerning the implementation of a new wage floor of R3 500 a month, Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali said yesterday.Speaking on the outcome of a Committee of Principals meeting on the national minimum wage last week, Ntshalintshali said the meeting agreed to set up a task-team comprising of three representatives of the government.Labour, business and community will be meeting today at the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac). It s not an ordinary meeting as it will revolve around speeding up the issues we are dealing with. We ll see what is the reaction from the social partners on the proposal, Ntshalintshali said.He reiterated that a proposal of a national minimum wage was a step towards the realisation of a living wage for workers. It s a starting point. We are also happy that a comprehensive social security system is on the cards. So it s not only the wage but an income policy. Ntshalintshali s comments come against the background of Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa backing a Nedlac advisory panel s proposal for a R3 500 a month national minimum wage in the National Assembly.Ntshalintshali, making reference to an adjustment period in which the wage should be implemented, said Cosatu would not relent on its call for social partners at Nedlac to commit to meeting the trade union federation s target of R4500. This is a target we should be moving towards even though we did not get it the first time round. It s an issue we will need to discuss on how we achieve it, he said.Ntshalintshali said he believed that concerns raised about the wage leading to job losses would be proven wrong. It has little impact on job losses. When a new wage is set up, employers naturally become conservative and there ll always be job losses in the first few months, but after that things normalise. We expected others to react negatively to our position. When people react with fear, they become conservative. Ntshalintshali believed that the improved salaries for workers would be poured back into the economy. If you give money to people, people will use it and put it back into the economy, he said.Ntshalintshali said the implementation of a new wage floor below which no worker can be legally paid should be regarded as a matter of priority in the country. It s a question of priority and what must come first and those priorities will be competing.What is disappointing is that the business community is not looking at those issues in a manner we should be looking at them in. The gap between the poor and the executives is too huge. The business community should come on board. People at the bottom are not earning. -BONOLO SELEBANO