Let s admit this. We all have some friends that we never want our boyfriend to meet. &#8220;There are some friends that stir up a sense of insecurity within us and creates a feeling of discomfort,&#8221; says relationship expert Madhu Kotiya. Here is a list of the variety of friends we need to be more careful of :1. The jealous lover friend We all have that one friend, don t we? That friend who secretly likes us. The friend we deliberately don t mention in front of our boyfriend. And if we don t even mention him, making him meet the man would only cause problems, which we do not want, right?2. Your ex who s NOW a friend You would never want to do that, would you? Making your ex-turned-friend meet your current boyfriend? Think again, ladies! It does NOT seem to be a good idea. After all, the ego game could be too strong to handle!3. The Third-wheel Yes, we all have planned dates with our best friend in tow sometimes, but all the time? Not a bright idea! We want our time alone with our man and would really not want a third wheelie tagging along, always!4. That super hot friend Sounds too familiar? There is always that one friend who is too hot to handle and somewhere inside us, we re jealous. The last person we would want our man to meet is this friend. What if he finds her better? What if that perfect figure lures him into changing his mind about you?5. The unnecessary flirt There s that friend, the one who will flirt with anything from the opposite sex moving. This kind should be strictly off-the-list. Do not even consider this option.6. The Frenemy She may be at a better job or better looking. And she doesn&#8217;t leave a chance to prove that to you. This is the breed which can turn out to be dangerous if introduced to your one true love. Why? Because all your insecurities will be standing right in front of you and staring.7. The always correct friend Aren t you already used to being the always correct diva? Familiarizing this category will make you look like Ms Lost-erson. Avoid this kind, as much as you canThis article first appeared on The Times of India