The ANC s Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) said yesterday it was forging ahead with its preparations to break bread with the SACP on challenges confronting the ruling party s former armed wing.MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe responded to a recent call by the SACP for a meeting to discuss the image of the MKMVA. He said that while he called for an end to public spats , he looked forward to the meeting scheduled for the early part of next year. We are happy that they called for a meeting and that we ll engage internally with them. We shared the trenches with them, we have a strong historical background as some of their members were MK members, Maphatsoe said.His comments come against the backdrop of a meeting between warring factions in the ANC military wing scheduled for the early part of next year. The factions led by MKMVA Kebby Maphatosoe and the other led by former MK general Siphiwe Nyanda have agreed to bury the hatchet following a public spat over the MKMVA s 55th anniversary celebrations last week.SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo said that the communists as co-founders of the ANC s military command concluded that the MKMVA s credibility crisis was a call for introspection. There is a crisis of representation. MKMVA serves as the voice of former MK combatants and some of those combatants found it necessary to convene a national council on their own. It might be a crisis of legitimacy. It (MKMVA) must answer who does it represent, Mashilo said.He said that the rationale behind the SACP s call to meet with the MKMVA leadership was to constructively help the ANC s former military wing on its challenges. The SACP has written a letter to the MKMVA because we are concerned about its integrity and legitimacy. Mashilo cautioned that the MKMVA s leadership should not regard themselves as only a structure of the ANC as the SACP were co-founders of Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK). If comrades look at themselves narrowly as a structure of the ANC they would be veering from the roots of MK. When the ANC was delivering on the armed struggle, the SACP was already advancing. It is a call for them to self-reflect and self-correct, he said.Mashilo also said that while he welcomed the call for a ceasefire between the MK factions, he said that the call had to be genuine for it to have meaning. It points in a positive direction unless people are making cries of unity while disrupting unity undercover. The entire effort of everyone, without exception, has to be sincere, he said.Bonolo selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za