THE President of Athletics South Africa (ASA), Aleck Skhosana, is confident that the new reforms at the next International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) congress will help address their concerns. Skhosana was reacting after a two-day council meeting in Monaco at the weekend in which the congress voted in favour of new governance reforms and the organisation s new constitution.With the IAAF recovering from its recent challenges, having faced allegations of corruption, Skhosana was satisfied that the reforms would help pave the way forward for the IAAF. The changes are expected to help fight doping controversies which have rocked the sport in recent years and also to give athletes a stronger voice and ensure better gender balance in the sport. ASA believes whatever the delegates have endorsed is based on the situation the IAAF finds itself in, Skhosana said. ASA had to go through the same process to restore the dignity and the pride of our sport over the past two years. It was a tough road to travel but the benefit of it has seen the results that every South African is enjoying today.I hope and believe that the IAAF leadership will certainly take everybody on board by addressing those issues of inclusion and proportional representation from today onwards in order to keep the global family together and focus on the future. Whereas Africa is pleased with the new changes, the continent warned that the IAAF would have to continue the debate going forward and become more inclusive at the highest level. We needed change and that change has happened, Confederation of African Athletics (CAA) president Hamad Kalkaba Malboum said. We need to protect our integrity and our clean athletes. This is very important for our sport to go in the right direction. This has been the stand of our administration. Despite being represented by 54 countries, more than any other continent, the CAA has no larger representation in the IAAF. Of the 27 IAAF council members, only three are from Africa and of the 109 commission members, 15 are African countries.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha