The rand looks set to end 2016 on a high note as it strengthened to a two-week high, supported by firming demand for commodities in global markets.But bad news for holidaymakers who will be returning home in January is that they will be greeted by a steep rise in the price of petrol at filling stations due to the mid-December weakness of the local currency which has been trading above the R14/$ level.On the positive side, the rand gained 0.4% to R13.85/$, its firmest since December 12. The local unit continued to hold strong throughout yesterday morning to trade at R13.75/$ and by lunch time it was 1.36% firmer to trade at R13.67/$. Stocks also rose with paper manufacturer Sappi and mining firms leading broad-based gains among blue chips.The JSE s benchmark Top-40 index rose 1.9% to 43 682 points, while the broader All-share index gained 1.9% to 50322 points. Despite a broadly firmer dollar, gold prices remained near two-week highs while copper was nearly 1% higher, further indications of robust commodity demand going into 2017.Mining firms BHP Billiton, Anglo American and Anglogold Ashanti all rallied more than 2%, lifting the bourse to a near two-week high. Sappi was the biggest gainer among the blue chips, advancing 4.4% to close on R89.50 while bonds were also firmer, with the yield on the benchmark government paper due in 2026 dropping one basis point to 8.97%. Although it looks good for the rand to end 2016, motorists are facing another bitter pill to swallow as the petrol price is expected to increase by 51c/litre in January, with some analysts warning that this could lead to a series of fuel price hikes in the new year.According to the mid-December fuel recovery data released by the Central Energy Fund (CEF), show a substantial price increase for all types of fuel in January. As a result, January will see the first of what the Automobile Association (AA) expects to be a series of fuel price hikes in the new year.The AA said that unaudited month-end fuel price data released by the CEF does not bode well for consumers. The rand has weakened against the US dollar since mid-December, while international petroleum prices have continued their upward march, the association said. However, despite the rand s recent weakness, it was comparatively strong in the first half of December, and the anticipated fuel price rise is entirely attributable to petroleum strength. The AA observed that if international petroleum prices had remained unchanged from November, South African fuel prices would actually have dropped by around two cents a litre in the new year. Instead, petrol is expected to increase by 51 cents a litre, diesel by about 40 cents and illuminating paraffin by 43 cents. It is too early to know at what price level oil supply will match demand in the wake of the Opec decision to cut production, the association said, adding that it expected 2017 to be a difficult year for motorists.But some quarters argued that with the latest surprise rebound of the rand, the current picture or expected series of increases could be short-lived if the local currency continues to be strong going ahead. BERNARD SATHEKGE with Reuters