A strategic plan to root out slumlords and attract investment back into Durban s city centre will be instituted in the coming months, the head of Ethekwini municipality s development planning, environment and management unit, Musa Mbhele, says.Speaking to The New Age, Mbhele said the plan, due to be finalised early next year, would clean up the inner city by addressing issues such as crime, grime, dilapidated buildings, loss of business investment and vagrancy.Durban s city centre has about 130 dilapidated buildings, which are seen as a major challenge to revitalisation efforts.Most of the buildings are used to house residents, who cram into tiny rooms that are deemed unsuitable for habitation and in violation of the city s by-laws.However, slow court processes mean that municipal efforts to demolish or revamp such buildings have taken many years with little success.Mbhele is confident that this will now change. Our new strategy includes a number of interventions that the city is considering to address the issue of decayed buildings, he said. These include engaging with the justice system to deal with absent, missing or deceased building owners. The longterm objective is to turn those buildings into useful structures that will benefit the economy of the inner city. We will also be intensifying a programme of obtaining court eviction orders to deal with hijacked buildings, following our recent success. Once those evictions have been successfully carried out, these buildings will be secured to prevent further new hijackings until those buildings are renovated and used to benefit the city. Other interventions to be implemented include the installation of surveillance cameras around the city, working with inner city businesses and implementing by-laws to clamp down on slumlords.Another key element in the city s turnaround strategy will be to drive more business investment into the inner city, which has seen traders exiting the area. City officials plan this through a major upgrade of safety and security features, which will allow traders to conduct business in the city and reinvest their revenue there. We will drive business investment through all these interventions, Mbhele said. We are already working on the implementation of key catalytic projects in the inner city, such as the Warwick Triangle redevelopment, Point Waterfront, and the Centrum Precinct redevelopment. We are also in the process of conducting a feasibility study for a light rail train or tram system that will deliver and collect commuters to and from different precincts of the city to activate dead parts of the city. In addition, we are working on a feasibility study to expand uShaka Marine World by including a Universal Studios development. This will be the first Universal Studios theme park on the African continent. This intervention is going to change the face of the inner city and complement Point Waterfront and the entire beachfront development. provinces@thenewage.co.za