Playful South Africans continue to show a huge appetite for sex toys with adult shops recording month-on-month increase in sales of couples sex toys.D sir, South African luxury sex toy e-commerce store, said it is recording month-on-month increases in the sales of sex toys and that, compared to last year when 70% of purchases were by men, the split is now equal.This is after a study released by the Statistic Brain Research Institute in a global poll earlier this year revealed that South Africans are not shy when it comes to searching for sex toys online with SA ranked third after the US and UK. Given the buying patterns and the growth in couples sex toy sales, there is definitely a new trend emerging, Brodie Meyer, MD of D sir, said. South Africa is in line with an evolving global sex toy market, which is changing from a dark, secretive and explicit industry to one of innovation, openness and acceptance. D sir Intimate Collections said that men are starting to understand the female psyche, her body and her need for intimacy.Products like dual stimulators are now in huge demand and this suggests that women are not only speaking up but also that men are listening.D sir Intimate Collections said the evidence of this shift in attitude is also reflected in the type of products being purchased online, such as more creative options that focus on shared sexual fulfilment rather than abject gratification.The innovative use of technology and design is making these products attractive to the average person. Men are now buying toys for women, and this suggests that couples are communicating about sex in a healthier way. Our best sellers this year were designed for couple s play and we believe that couples are working together on sexual fulfilment, engaging on topics around equally fulfilling intimacy and that men are working a little harder to make sure that sex is gratifying for their partners too, Meyer said. Lovehoney s newly launched sex toy advent calendar and the world s first sex toy on Kickstarter demonstrate that for couples demand has always been there but that the industry has been challenged by a negative image, D sir Intimate Collections said.Meyer is dedicated to removing the negative social stigmas around the adult toy industry. Meyer said that the language of sex and the sex toy industry is now starting to become more mainstream and acceptable. Our clients buy our products for their health benefits, for reasons of empowerment and education and for their emotional well-being. The D sir sex, love and health blog aims to inspire education around taboo topics and to stimulate open dialogue between the public and the creators and sellers of quality sex toys.As the sex toy industry in SA becomes more acceptable, transparent, user-friendly and education-orientated, it is anticipated that more couples will be empowered to buy sexual health products online. The forecast for the online luxury sex toys industry is good, Meyer said.INDIE BOYCE