For more than four years Lesotho-born actress Liteboho Molise has kept Muvhango fans on the edge of their seats as Teboho, the manipulative maid to Thandaza (Sindi Dlathu) and much later in the growing story line, the ever troublesome wife to mayor Mulalo Mukwevho (Sydney Ramakuela).After a brief hiatus from the soapie, Teboho has relaunched herself as a serious but manipulative businesswoman and meddling wife.Molise recently spoke to The New Age about the excitement of playing the role of Teboho. My character has grown over the years. Teboho has moved from being a maid to being a wife and now a businesswoman. I admire Teboho for being the bold person that she is, Molise said. Unlike me she is a go getter who is not afraid to speak her mind. There are times when I wish I was as brave to speak out as she does without any worries. The recently married actress says she is grateful that her character has shown considerable growth within the soapie. To portray Teboho well, Molise draws inspiration and strength by observing friends, strangers and people around her. I use a lot of real life situations as a reference for Teboho s role. Sometimes I would be in a public space and a stranger would just speak her mind without a care in the world and I would say wow, I don t believe she just said or did that . Over the years, the actress has had to deal with a lot of negativity arising from her on-screen character. She has been accused by her fans of being a Mosotho wife with low morals and a bad influence to young women in the country and those from her home country.However, the actress has learnt to take these perceptions in her stride. I have always been someone who does not pay attention to negativity. I have learnt to not take these things seriously. On the other hand, this means I am doing a great job as an actor if people get to believe my character as a real person. Getting the Muvhango role was not easy for Molise, who had auditioned for a different role in 2011, before having to audition for the role of Teboho months later after the initial rejection. When Muvhango was looking for a Sesotho-speaking Carol Chabeli, I auditioned in Maseru in 2011. However, I did not get the role of Carol because, among other reasons given, I looked younger whereas Carol was a mother of two. I was called up much later to audition for Teboho and for some reason I thought being Sotho would work in my favour and I would get the role easily, but that was not to be. It was quite tough, but eventually, I made it though the auditions. As a child, Molise always loved to perform, sing and act. She took part in anything that had to do with the arts.However, her mother would not entertain ideas of an acting career and though she wanted to do law, she ended up studying political science and public administration at the National University of Lesotho before branching out into acting after graduating. I have always been good with arts and culture stuff. I danced, sang and did embroidery as a child. But my mother wanted me to get a formal education, hence I went on to study public admin. I would have studied law, but my marks were not that great. SIYABONGA SITHOLE