A sharp rise in land invasions in KwaZulu-Natal has led to rising tensions between land owners and occupiers, some of whom have threatened to resort to violence rather than have their shacks demolished.In a recent court case between the KwaDukuza municipality and a group of land invaders, the high court ruled that illegal structures built in Glenhills could be demolished.The homes were built on an illegally-acquired piece of land earmarked for the Steve Biko, Phase 2, Low Income Housing Project that is under construction.KwaDukuza mayor Ricardo Mthembu said the illegally occupied land is in fact earmarked for the construction of 1500 houses. He said the court action was proof the municipality would not tolerate anyone breaking the law. We have said time and again that utilising municipal land illegally for narrow and self-serving interests is unacceptable as it constitutes non-compliance with the law. We are therefore sending a very clear message to those who continue to undermine our authority as a local planning and building agency that if one has land-related interests within our jurisdiction, one should play by the rules as the law is decisive in nature and it is there to be enforced, Mthembu said.However, 12 of the affected illegal occupiers facing demolitions are opposing the court order and filed a motion of notice against interim order issued on August 1.Meanwhile in Durban, tensions between the shack dwellers of Puntans Hill, Morningside and land invaders boiled over with the recent petrol bombing of the home of a family that had been living there for 100 years.This led to other residents living in fear of further retribution from the angry shack dwellers who accused the formal dwellers of reporting them to the eThekwini Land Unit to demolish their shacks.A resident who refused to be named said he believes that the home belonging to a 52-year-old woman and her 18-year-old daughter was petrol bombed because they were spies for the unit. Every time she saw a new structure being built, she would immediately sit on the phone. The next thing you know people s homes are being demolished. She and her daughter had to go, how are we supposed to live our lives with her watching us, an informal dweller in the area said.While the family, whose names are being withheld for safety reasons, stands testimony to the violent standoff, three other homes next to the informal settlement have been stripped and abandoned by the owners. When The New Age visited the area there was a patrol car stationed along the street belongingto Vuco Security Solutions.The driver said due to tensions in the area they were hired by the department of human settlements to keep a watchful eye for new structures popping up. The neighbours are now even scared to talk to us. We can t even park our branded vehicles next to anybody s home because they fear being attacked once we are gone, the security said.The shack dwellers say the problem is with the lack of housing and good paying jobs in the province. A resident of the informal settlement said nobody leaves home to find a job and decides to live in a shack willingly and to see that being torn down only brings heartache. No man would sit back and watch his home being demolished and not do anything that it takes to defend it. I also have dreams of one day waking up to solid walls rather than cardboard covered walls and to one day have a fridge, he said.The department of human settlements had yet to respond to questions from The New Age by the time of print.SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULOnews@thenewage.co.za