South Africa s massive inequalities are abundantly obvious to even the most casual observer. When the ANC won the elections in 1994, it came armed with a left-wing pedigree second to none, having fought a protracted liberation war in alliance with progressive forces which drew in organised labour and civic groupings.At the dawn of democracy the tight knit tripartite alliance also carried in its wake a patchwork of disparate groupings who, while clearly supportive of efforts to rid the country of apartheid, could best be described as liberal.It was these groupings that first began the clamour of opposition to all left-wing, radical or revolutionary ideas that has by now become the constant backdrop to all conversations about the state of our country, the economy, the education system, the health services, everything.Thus was the new South Africa introduced to its own version of a curse that had befallen all countries that gained independence from oppressors, neo-colonialism.By the time South Africa was liberated, neo-colonialism, which as always sought to buy off the libera tors with the political kingdom while keep ing control of the economic kingdom, had perfected itself into what has become an era where neo-liberalism reigns supreme.But what exactly is neo-liberalism? George Monbiot says: Neo-liberalism sees competi tion as the defining characteristic of human relations. It redefines citizens as consumers, whose democratic choices are best exercised by buying and selling, a process that rewards merit and punishes inefficiency. It maintains that the market delivers benefits that could never be achieved by planning. Never improvingThere is consensus between commentators who have studied the effects of neo-liberalism that it has become all pervasive and is the key to ensuring that the rich remain rich, while the poor and the merely well to do continue on a perpetual hamster s wheel, going nowhere and never improving their lot in life while they serve their masters.Monbiot says of this largely anonymous scourge: Attempts to limit competition are treated as inimical to liberty. Tax and regula tions should be minimised, public services should be privatised. The organisation of labour and collective bargaining by trade unions are portrayed as market distortions that impede the formation of a natural hierar chy of winners and losers. Inequality is recast as virtuous, a reward for utility and a genera tor of wealth, which trickles down to enrich everyone. Efforts to create a more equal soci ety are both counterproductive and morally corrosive. The market ensures that everyone gets what they deserve. Nelson MandelaSouth Africa s sad slide into neo-liberalism was given impetus at Davos in 1992 where Nel son Mandela had this to say to the assembled super rich: We visualise a mixed economy, in which the private sector would play a central and critical role to ensure the creation of wealth and jobs. Future economic policy will also have to address such questions as secu rity of investments and the right to repatriate earnings, realistic exchange rates, the rate of inflation and the fiscus. Further insight into this pivotal moment was provided by Anthony Sampson, Mandela s official biographer who wrote: It was not until February 1992, when Mandela went to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, that he finally turned against nationalisation. He was lionised by the world s bankers and industrialists at lunches and dinners. This is not to cast any aspersions on Man dela, he had to make these decisions at the time to protect our democratic transition. But these utterances should have been accom panied by a behind the scenes interrogation of all the ANC s thoughts on how to proceed in terms of the economy delivering socialist orientated solutions without falling into the minefield of neo-liberal traps that lay in wait for our emerging country.Senior cadres co-optedUnfortunately, history shows that some key senior cadres of the ANC were all too keen to be coopted into the neo-liberal fold and any attempts to put forward radical measures that would bring something fresh to the table to address the massive inequalities of the past were and continue to be kept off the table and we are still endlessly fed the neo-liberal trickle-down baloney.Now no one dares to express any type of radical approach to our economic woes unless it is some loony populist. Debate around these important issues is largely missing and the level of commentary on all important national questions is shockingly shallow.Anti-labour, anti-socialist, anti-poor, anti-blackThe status quo as set by the largely white-owned media revolves around key neo-liberal slogans mas querading as commentary that is anti-labour, anti-socialist and anti-poor, which sadly trans lates within our own context as anti-black and therefore repugnantly racist.We live in a country where the black, over whelmingly poor majority of our citizens have voted for a much revered liberation movement that is constantly under attack from within and without by people who do not have their best interests at heart and are brilliant at manipulating outcomes to suit themselves on a global scale. Kevin Humphrey is associate executive editor of The New Age