Crime fighting in Gauteng has been severely hobbled by broken down police vehicles.Some police vehicles could take up to six months to repair at a South African Police Service (SAPS) garage facility in Diepkloof, Soweto, which resembles a wreckage dump site.The shortage of vehicles has thrown the police s much-publicised sector policing strategy into disarray.Police officers interviewed said their precincts operated with as little as three vehicles, which impacted negatively on crime prevention and their ability to respond to calls. It is difficult to work without resources. We need more cars to fight crime, one police officer based in Midrand said .The Diepkloof police garage had the eerie feeling of a cemetery when The New Age visited it recently.Vehicles out of order were of all makes and models from utility trucks, sedans, vans to the bigger Nyala armoured vehicles. A number of the vehicles on view appear to have been involved in major accidents. There were hundreds of vehicles in the garage.SAPS management says Gauteng has a fleet of nearly 6 000 vehicles used for operational, investigative and support service duties.Setchaba Letsoalo, deputy chairperson of the Diepkloof community policing forum (CPF), blamed understaffing for the poor turnaround in servicing and repairing vehicles. You ll find that the garage repairs cars from 10 different stations and sometimes you find that there are not enough mechanics. One person could be working on 15 cars, Letsoalo said.Gauteng police spokesperson Col Noxolo Kweza acknowledged that inadequate resources were hampering effective policing. She said, however, that the SAPS had monitoring measures to record, for instance, reaction time to complaints. Community members who have complaints regarding this can either contact the local station commander, the provincial or national offices and even the Ipid (Independent Police Investigative Directorate) to lodge complaints, Kweza said.She could not say how many police vehicles were unroadworthy. The numbers changed on a daily basis as vehicles came in and out of service.She said CPFs were meant to hold station commanders, who managed the allocated resources, accountable. Kweza said CPFs were expected to play a role in monitoring the use of vehicles as part of their oversight role.Letsoalo was adamant that his station in Diepkloof was under-resourced and short of vehicles. We re short of cars and we re also short of members, and at the end of the day the community wants police to be able to look after them, he said. When there are no cars, how can we help the community? Police can t patrol on foot. In Diepkloof, for example, we have four sectors and in those sectors there should be at least two safety vehicles. So in an area that has four sectors, they should all each have two vehicles. Lawrence Mnyanda, a member of the Orlando Patrol Group, said many police officers were misusing their vehicles. The police often complain that there are no cars available but if you go out, you will see their cars parked outside shops, he said.Mnyanda urged police management to be transparent with CPFs and patrol groups regarding challenges posed by the lack of vehicles. As a patrol group we wanted to find out the total number of cars at Orlando police station but the director there said we were not privy to the information. We ended up going to court to ascertain the total number of vehicles available, Mnyanda said.During a presentation to Parliament s portfolio committee, acting police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane said the SAPS was in need of more resources to adequately fight crime.news@thenewage.co.za