Africa, the cradle of mankind and home to the world s youngest population, has a historic opportunity to realise its full potential, in sharing our potential prosperity, by enhancing economic growth, promoting and entrenching democratic ideals. That is why I am so passionate to be running for the post of African Union Commission (AUC) chairperson.It is time for the African Union (AU) to provide leadership. Africans of all walks of life look up to it. I also strongly believe our continent is at a turning point, a defining moment, when we must drive an agenda that realises a common vision of integration, cooperation, collaboration and committed leadership.It is Africa s time; we cannot afford to miss this golden opportunity to put it at the centre stage of world politics and economics while improving the lot of our people and countries.We already have a sound blueprint going forward as envisaged in the AU s Agenda 2063 The Africa We Want. This blueprint has a clear road map for implementation.One of the critical areas is achieving synergy of member states through collaboration among the eight regional economic groupingsand AU s strategic partners. Africa s markets must communicate with each other to harness trade and investment.Infrastructure deficit stands as an impediment towards this objective. We must secure seamless connectivity through people-to-people interactions, ICT and knowledge transfer throughout the Continent. Hard infrastructure development should also be reinforced by more intra-Africa rail, road, air and water linkages.Mwalimu Julius Nyerere once said Together, we the people of Africa will be incomparably stronger internationally than we are now with our multiplicity of unviable states. It is no longer tenable to keep talking of our great potential. It is time to make the African continent felt, heard and respected on the global scene. For this to happen, Africa must take greater responsibility of financing its development.Such has been the agreement by our finance and planning ministers since March last year. Domestic resource mobilisation is the assured strategic complement to foreign investment and official development assistance. Focused leadership at the AUC will guarantee that this decision is fully implemented.In order to increase the financial resources available internally, industrialisation and diversification remain pertinent. More specifically, we need to harness our blue economy and fast track the mining industry. Africa has to build the capacity of our youthful population.Last year, African youth aged 15-24 years accounted for 19% of the global youth population and projected to increase by 42% by 2030.This is a demographic dividend to Africa s prosperity. Women must also be fully enabled to play an inclusive role in all spheres of Africa s development.Tapping into Africa s talent will be the hallmark of my tenure. The collective success to Agenda 2063 lies in creating an indomitable human force to resolve Africa s challenges.African citizens deserve a life of dignity free from harm, in order to promote social justice and the realisation of their potential.I am optimistic that together we can continue to create a continent that not only embodies our pride and dignity, but also the hub for peace and stability.Africa must also make its cultural diversity a cause for celebration. Cultural exchange across the continent through education, travel and symposia. This will renew our Pan-African ideals especially among younger Africans.Our continent has made significant strides in expanding access to education and better health care. In order to shelter our population from extreme want, we ought to explore skills diversification and universal health coverage.Investing in value addition through agroprocessing will increase Africa s global market share and attain collective food security and comparative advantage. Going forward, we must remain in partnership with the rest of the world. Global challenges such as climate change will only be resolved through cooperation.However, Africa remains most vulnerable from effects of global warming. As such, we need to; take serious mitigation and adaptation measures, utilise indigenous knowledge to generate local shared solutions and build resilient communities in addition to our continued demands for climate justice. Thus, united by the vision of an independent Africa working for better lives of all her people, it is now time for the AUC to foster the realisation of Africa s full potential through transformative leadership harnessed by the AUC Secretariat. IPSAmina MohamedAmbassador Amina Mohamed is the cabinet secretary for foreign affairs and Kenya s candidate for the position of chairperson of the African Union Commission