IN A legal battle akin to David versus Goliath that may set a precedence for many other communities, residents of Lesetlheng village in Moruleng, North West are waiting with bated breath to know whether mining operations threatening their livelihoods will be halted or allowed to continue.The community, represented by Lawyers for Human Rights (LHR), decided to approach the North West High Court in Mahikeng to lay claim to ownership of communal land which is increasingly threatened by growing mining activities.The village, which falls under the Bakgatla Ba Kgafela tribe wants to push back advances by Pilanesberg Platinum Mine. The mining company s operations are threatening the livelihood of residents who claim to be legitimate owners of the land.The community has been using the 3000 hectare piece of land for agricultural purposes but face the possibility of being evicted should they lose the case. If they win the case, experts say the decision could set a precedence for many other communities facing the same challenges. Louise du Plessis from LHR said her team seeks justice for the Lesetlheng community. The community has been recognised over the years by members of the broader tribe as the owners of the farm. At the time the farm was purchased it was understood that it was reserved for the exclusive control, use and occupation of the Lesethleng community and as such it should not have been dealt with as part of the communal farms held by the broader Bakgatla-ba-Kgafela tribe, Du Plessis said. The details regarding the names of the contributing members, the amounts they each paid and how the farm was to be divided among them, are all recorded in an old book which captures the history of the community. It has since emerged that the Lesetlheng community paid for their land only for the discriminatory apartheid laws to bar them from being registered as the rightful owners. The continued struggle for the recognition of land rights faced by many rural communities around South Africa exposes the lack of post-apartheid legislation that effectively protects these vulnerable communities. If any mining should take place on the farm, the people of Lesetlheng should be recognised as the true owners and the rightful beneficiaries. Platinum mining has become a lucrative business in the area with some of the biggest mining companies operating around what is dubbed the Platinum Belt in the province.Pilanesberg Platinum Mine, a subsidiary of Sedibelo Platinum Mines, is said to have tripled in size since it commenced operations in 2008. The rapid growth of these mining companies is paralleled by the increasing tensions between traditional communities and their traditional leaders on one end and traditional communities and mining companies on the other. Powers of traditional leaders have been reinforced by post-apartheid legislation such as the Traditional Leadership and Governance Framework Act of 2003. Traditional leaders are considered the custodians of community property and as such they are empowered to administer the communal land entrusted to them for the benefit of the whole community. Traditional leaders have the authority to enter into mining contracts with mining companies on behalf of the community and to mediate relations between the community and the mine. However, this has also come with many problems, creating conflict in communities.In some cases, communities have begun challenging the mining contracts entered into by the chiefs based on the contention that their forefathers bought the mineral rich farms as private properties that should have been distinguished from the communal or tribal land. This is exactly the situation playing itself out in Lesethleng village. The community purchased the farm Wilgespruit (locally referred to as Modimo Mmalo) nearly a century ago in 1919. In spite of being the true purchasers, the community could not be registered as the owners of the land at that time because of the discriminatory racial laws and policies in place. Consequently, the farm was registered in the state s name, which in turn held it in trust for the Bakgatlaba-Kgafela tribe, the overarching traditional community to which Lesethleng forms part of. The community has over the years used the farm, peacefully and undisturbed, predominantly for crop farming and sometimes livestock farming to sustain their livelihoods. Things took a turn in 2008 when Itereleng Bakgatla Mineral Resources (IBMR) acquired mining rights over the farm Wilgespruit, though the community continued farming on the land. However, once IBMR ceded the mining rights to Pilanesberg Platinum Mine the mining company rapidly began expanding its operations on the farm to the extent that the villagers were almost driven off their land. In 2014, the mine began fencing off portions of the farm, commenced extensive de-bushing of the vegetation on the farm and excavation of the soil in preparation for mining. This was done in complete disregard of the community s land rights. A court order won by LHR in September 2015 sought to halt the mining operations and restore possession of land to the community, but that has sparked the battle that is before the court now. The mine has brought an eviction application against the community as it seeks to continue exploiting the vast mineral resources on the land. In its application, the mine has the support of the local traditional leadership. The mine bases its application on the claim that the informal land rights (if any) held by the community over the farm were extinguished when the Bakgatla-ba-Kgafela tribe in 2008 resolved to enter into a surface lease agreement with IBMR. It argues that in any case, its rights as the mining right-holder take precedence over the informal land right holder. The community, on the other hand, challenges the validity of the mining right that was granted over the farm in the first instance and subsequently ceded to the mine on the basis that the community members whose forefathers actually bought the farm were not consulted as the owners. The community declares that they are the true owners of the farm and therefore cannot be evicted by the mine. Of the 40 families set to be affected, it emerged that had they been evicted in 2015, their compensation would have been a paltry R15000 per household. The meagre compensation is seen as an insult to owners of land when mining barons pocket billions of rands.A date for the ruling on the matter is yet to be set.-ELFAS TORERAI