THERE is a massive shortage of urban farmers in Johannesburg. Simbarashe Simba Chimhandamba, who supports his wife, founder of Urban Grown, Nhlanhla Mokoena Chimhandamba, said funding does not get better with time. We were first self funded until now. The board of directors of City Lodge Hotel group are assisting us with our business because we are part of their supply chain, Chimhandamba said.He said no funding had come from the government as yet. However, Food Lovers Market is helping them with marketing in Johannesburg and Cape Town. Besides using hydroponics as their urban farming strategy, Chimhandamba says roof top gardening is the next way to go with urban farming. Hydroponics is a good way to farm because it is conscious of the environment. Chimhandamba said it is expensive but it saves water and in the long run it creates job opportunities. Roof top gardening is our next level for Urban Grown; we recommend it since there are so many abandoned buildings and parking spaces, Chimhandamba said.Miss Earth national finalist and life and environmental scientist Lesego Seloane say there are only a handful of local urban farmers and common systems found are on school premises. She says that there has been a growing interest from young people in the farming industry volunteering at schools. The challenges faced by urban farmers is the lack of funding, correct infrastructure and inadequate access to markets, Seloane said. She says in a normal setting a farmer farms for a handful of families and they compete with the big chain stores that have infiltrated different communities especially townships such as Thembisa and Soweto. Founder of Chillie of Soweto Philasande Cele says it is not even a matter of having competition. There is a serious need for urban farmers especially ones with gardens in Soweto. There are few gardens in Soweto, even less of them are successful and they are not making money, Cele said. Agriculture is being looked at as a viable way out of poverty for many South Africans, as well as a way for people to contribute to the metro economies. Deputy director of media relations for Johannesburg Nthatisi Modingoane said that there was no shortage of urban farmers but rather a shortage of capable urban farmers in the city of Johannesburg. We need to create an enabling environment for farmers to graduate from subsistence to emerging and from emerging to commercial farmers. Modingoane emphasised the need for roof top gardens since there is not enough land and to strengthen public private partnership to attract investment into agri-business. The city of Johannesburg has been embarking on encouraging households receiving food parcels in deprived wards to establish their own food gardens.Since the inception of the programme, more than 36000 homestead gardens, 200 communal and one roof top garden have been established across the city. These initiatives have brought households in the economic mainstream through the selling of surplus crops as a means of generating an income for the family to address other than their basic needs.Some of the families have graduated from growing vegetables in their own yards and become actively involved as emerging farmers through communal gardens and large scale farming. The most important aspect is that these families are graduating from poverty to become entrepreneurs through the guidance and support of the food resilience team.provinces@thenewage.co.za-Sisanda Madwantsi