For elderly people like Magdalene Poa, 84, the idea of fetching water from one of the three communal taps is a challenge. Poa says her bones cannot take the load anymore. I was once young and I would carry this bucket on my head but now I can no longer do it on my own. Poa lives alone in a shack situated in Sonderwater informal settlement in Dikgatlong local municipality.Poa is forced to pay at least R40 to youngsters in the neighbourhood to carry the newly donated water wheelbarrow to one of three communal taps, to take water for her.While the wheelbarrow has wheels, Poa says her bones don t allow for her to push it. Poa is one of the 1 300 recipients of the water wheelbarrows which was donated by the department of water affairs and sanitation.Departmental spokesperson Amogelang Moholoeng said elderly people were prioritised as part of their drought relief programme and those who would benefit from this programme included the elderly, pensioners and as people living with disabilities. These 100 litre water containers will enable them to fetch water with ease and store it in their households, he said. Residents of the Dikgatlong local municipality have received 80, while Joe Morolong received 400, Gasegonyana and Gamagara have received 50 each respectively and 200 to the Kai! Garib local municipality. A further 20 will be allocated to Tsantsabane local municipality while 500 are still awaiting allocation confirmations. At this stage, the department is prioritising the worst drought-affected municipalities, Moholoeng said.In the seriously drought-stricken community, another resident, Maggie Modise, 49, said the water wheelbarrows were a major convenience for her, especially living in an area where the water supply is a challenge. As you walk into Modise s street in Sonderwater, row upon row of shacks await you. There are no houses, toilets, roads or piping infrastructure and there is no electricity.Right next to the settlement lies a rail network which passes from one Northern Cape town the next. According to Modise, the a donation of a water tank is useful as it helps them, especially carrying large quantities of water.Modise has a vegetable garden which she waters daily and relies on the wheelbarrow she received to sustain it. What I like about the wheelbarrow is that if you put it in the shade, it releases cold water, in the sun, hot water. It is mobile and I don t have to work up a sweat.Again, the wheelbarrow has a tap and allows us to water the garden, she said.Modise, however, could not resist from complaining about the countless challenges they experience in Sonderwater but hoped that with the little they get, they will be able to move forward. We are not in a rush to get housing, all we want is for the roads to be fixed and toilets installed, she said.Modise said a shack burnt down at the weekend and all they could do as members of the community was look on. We don t have piping infrastructure and so we could not rush to the blaze in time. By the time we reached the shack, it was already in a shambles, she said. I just hope more could be done to rectify our problems. The councillor of Ward 3, Jimmy Mafofololo, said that he heard about the shack that burnt to the ground and they wanted to avoid a situation of that nature from occurring again. By providing many of these water wheelbarrows, communities will be able to fill up their buckets and stop the shack fires, at least while the fire brigade makes its way to the township. Mafofololo said while the municipality found a way to bring services to the residents, they would try to get more water wheelbarrows to the community. We were hoping that one water wheelbarrow would assist at least three households at a time. We have been liaising with the department of water affairs which said we should draft another list of beneficiaries who are in need of the wheelbarrows, he said. If one wheelbarrow is used by three households, it means of the 10 delivered to Sonderwater, 30 households will benefit, Mafofololo said.NOMUSA MVUBU