A Group of ANC stalwarts and veterans who are signatories to For the Sake of our Future have called for the closing of ranks among warring factions in the ANC s former military wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK).Party stalwart Sydney Mufamadi said the 55th anniversary celebrations of the ANC s military wing should not be a platform for divisions to play out in the open. We are beginning to see people who joined the MK, in the period closer to the prime of its formation, begin to express their opinions. They will gain a great deal by attending the event. The older MK generals who are still with us, it s important to get closer to them while they are still alive, Mufamadi said.Mufamadi s comments come against the background of a planned boycott by a group of aggrieved veterans led by former SANDF chief Siphiwe Nyanda.The concerned veterans described a planned honouring of embattled SABC head of corporate affairs Hlaudi Motsoeneng and former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe, among others, as a slap in the face of true MK combatants .Mufamadi switched focus to a workshop meeting of ANC stalwarts and veterans today. He said the meeting would thrash out the finer details of a planned ANC consultative conference called for by the veterans.He said the ANC s national working committee decision to combine the consultative conference with the party policy conference would be discussed. He said time frames and logistical issues would top the agenda. For logistical reasons, the leadership of the ANC said if they have a separate conference that would be one conference too many. The issue before the consultative conference is the number of people who will be coming (and) the feasibility of combining the consultative conference with the policy conference. Mufamadi, making reference to the ANC s elective conference next year, said leadership election slates should be done away with. We have shown a dislike for the practice of slates, it has proven to be divisive and devastating in its impact. We as veterans would like to see the practice become a thing of the past, he said.The group of long-standing ANC members also said in a statement that they were confident that their efforts in healing divisions in the ANC would bear fruit. It is our belief, given our diverse range of experiences within the movement, that we can provide valuable assistance in breaking the paralysis gripping our organisation that many of us have devoted our lives to, they said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za