THERE are many theories about the relationship between alcohol and one s ability to perform between the sheets. Too much alcohol is a passion killer, wrote William Shakespeare, who added that while alcohol provokes the desire, it takes away the performance .In women, the effects of alcohol on libido in literature are mixed. Many women report that alcohol increases sexual arousal and desire but some studies show alcohol lowers the physiological signs of arousal.In men, intoxication commonly leads to erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation, although the effects of intoxication on individuals may vary.It comes as no surprise that drinking removes performance shyness and makes people less inhibited in their behaviour, both sexually and non-sexually.A Swiss study found that beer drinking made it easier for volunteers to view explicit sexual images and that the this alcohol-induced willingness was greater for women than for men.The research was presented at the European College of Neuropsychopharmacology (ECNP) annual meeting in Vienna and also appears in the journal Psychopharmacology. This is an interesting study confirming conventional wisdom that alcohol is a social lubricant and that moderate use of alcohol makes people happier, more social and less inhibited when it comes to sexual engagement, Prof Wim van den Brink from the University of Amsterdam and former chairperson of the ECNP scientific programme committee said.Speaking to The New Age, Prof Johann Lemmer, president of Sexology South Africa, said the effects of alcohol were balanced between its suppressive effects on sexual physiology and its suppression of the psychological inhibitions that prevent people from having sex or approaching potential partners. Both men and women reported that alcohol increases sexual arousal and desire, he said. However, some studies show alcohol lowers the physiological signs of arousal. Erectile dysfunction for men and desensitised orgasms for women are some of the most commonly reported negative outcomes of heavy drinking.Lemmer cited a 2015 study by sexologist Amy Cooper, which revealed that people s sexual experiences were generally less positive when drinking than when sober. Those with strong expectancies for sexual enhancement reported greater arousal at high consumption levels, whereas those with weak enhancement expectancies reported lower arousal, Lemmer said. In short, drinking on sexual occasions failed to deliver any benefit for the majority of individuals. There is no substantial proof that moderate drinking has any negative impact on sexuality. It is not gender- or culturally-based but individually determined. Research on alcohol use and sexual behaviour revealed that social acceptance of alcohol has been viewed as a the key facilitator of sexual encounters.Lemmer also says that alcohol-serving venues are often contact places for sexual encounters. However, he said he was alarmed by the prominence of alchohol before a pair s first sexual encounter.While it seems that alchohol may make you more confident, responsibility is key, since drunkenness impairs a person s ability to consent.-siyabongas@thenewage.co.za