A shift on how football is approached globally can be noticed with more young goalkeepers defying the stereotypes that old is better .In the past, teams around the world went shopping for older goalkeepers, wary of just throwing youngsters into the deep end.Local goalkeepers like Arthur Bartman, Brian Baloyi, Andre Arendse and Francis Chansa, were a stock that rose to stardom when they were in their late 20s and well into their 30s.The trend has been the same overseas, with keepers like Edwin van der Sa preferred at Manchester United until he retired, while Fabian Bathez is one of the keepers who was trusted when he was in his 30s.That has been changing of late, with young keepers like Thibaut Courtois, David de Gea and Marten ter Stegen hard to ignore in their early 20s, while local keepers have also been raising their hands.Ronwen Williams became No1 at SuperSport United at an early age, while Itumeleng Khune, Jody February and Brighton Mhlongo, are other notable mentions.Of those goalkeepers is 24-year-old Reyaad Pieterse, who does duty for Matsatsantsa. The former Kaizer Chiefs keeper, who first got known when he surfaced in Ireland playing for Shamrock Rovers, broke into the Chiefs first team, giving both Khune and Brilliant Khuzwayo a run for their money.Pieterse does not believe one has to be old to be good , insisting that the only thing young keepers and young players need is a chance to play. I think the biggest difference is when young guys come out and prove that they are good enough, and that they are ready. That is all there is to do to reach the top. I always say that for any player, if you are good enough, you are old enough. If you get a chance, you have to use it.Sure, you will make mistakes. Everyone does.You will need a coach who believes in you. I always look at Lorenzo Gordinho as an example, Pieterse said. He came on for the first time against Maritzburg United and gave away a penalty. They stuck by him and now he is one of the best defenders in the league. All we need is game time. Good goalkeeper coaches help. I have had Rainer Dinkelacker, Andre Arendse and Brian Baloyi. They have been helpful. If you are young and you listen,you will go places. In a comment his former fans at Chiefs may not appreciate, Pieterse has insisted that leaving Amakhosi for Matsatsantsa was not a downgrade . A lot of people used to see a move from Chiefs or Pirates to other sides as a downgrade, but that is not how I see it.Everyone makes a big deal of Pirates, Chiefs and Sundowns, but there are clubs like Cape Town City, Bidvest Wits and SuperSport, who are equally good. We don t recognise the hard work they put in and how structured those clubs are. Of course, we cannot deny the fact that Chiefs, Sundowns and Pirates are the biggest teams in the country. You can t deny that, Pieterse said.MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepe@thenewage.co.za