Overworked long-distance taxi drivers pose an additional danger on the country s roads.Transport Minister Dipuo Peters yesterday confirmed that the death toll on the country s roads have shot up by 17% compared to last December.She said long-distance taxi drivers were exacerbating the problem by doing as many as three trips a day without rest or sleep as they hoped to cash in on the festive season travellers.The taxi industry is believed to be failing to monitor drivers who clock marathon hours on long-distance return trips, a practice that often resulted in fatigue.Peters said that there had been 684 fatal road accidents since the beginning of the month. She blamed negligent drivers for the carnage.There are claims that during this period minibus taxi drivers travel long distances without taking a rest and often conclude trips to Limpopo, KwaZulu-Natal, Gauteng and Free State in a single day.A taxi driver who spoke on condition of anonymity blamed taxi owners for the state of affairs, suggesting that the practice was motivated by the desire to make more money. He claimed drivers were forced to engage in this practice. We are an accident waiting to happen. about 3am in the morning I m at the taxi rank loading passengers to Tzaneen in Limpopo. If I make three trips a day, I know I will meet the taxi owner s expectations and make enough pocket money for myself, he said.He said they had no choice but to double their trips to generate bonuses for themselves . We do not sleep or rest during the festive season because the demand for taxis to ferry commuters to various destinations is high, he said.Road Traffic Management Corporation spokesperson Simon Zwane has urged all long-distance drivers to drive no more than 200km and then take a rest. We call upon on those travelling long distances to have two drivers to relieve one another when fatigue sets in. Drivers should make regular stops otherwise commuters lives are in danger, he said.A study done by the Automobile Association of South Africa recorded an annual total of 70000 minibus taxi accidents. The study indicated that taxis in South Africa accounted for double the number of all other passenger vehicle accidents.National Taxi Alliance secretary Theo Malele said they faced huge challenges in controlling long-distance taxi drivers. He said they had increased branded patrols and that the festive season was all about making money.PETER RAMOTHWALA