Today s 20th anniversary celebrations of the Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (Denosa) will be keenly observed following the endorsement of Cyril Ramaphosa by Cosatu as the next president of the governing party.Ramaphosa is scheduled to address the celebrations at the Union Buildings. Also to speak is Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini. Last week the ANC criticised Cosatu for pronouncing on the party s succession plans, accusing the federation and its affiliates of attempting to influence its branches on the matter. Ramaphosa and former MK commander and Public Service and Administration Deputy Minister Ayanda Dlodlo will speak at an event tonight hosted by the Nelson Mandela Foundation to commemorate the third anniversary of the late president Nelson Mandela s death.Parliament closes this week. On the committee front, tomorrow the communications portfolio committee will adopt a report recommending how candidates to serve on the council of the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa are to be appointed. The committee will also be briefed by Parliament s legal services on how to remove a member of the Media Development and Diversity Agency.Also tomorrow, the portfolio committee will listen to the Department of Mineral Resources and Chamber of Mines elaborate on the 2017 Mining Indaba charter. The committee will also get feedback on the progress of the Lily Mine disaster, which claimed the lives of three people in February.Ramaphosa will bring down the curtain in the National Assembly with a final contribution from the executive on Wednesday. He is to answer questions. Members will also make closing speeches.The National Council of Provinces will rise on Friday with members bidding each other farewell for the recess.But the show continues for some MPs, particularly those in the ad hoc committee looking into the one-person SABC board. This committee is due to start its deliberations this week and will hold hearings until December 15 before adjourning until early in January.On Wednesday morning, Police Minister Nkosinathi Nhleko is due to appear before the police portfolio committee to explain what the difficulties are at the Independent Police Investigative Directorate.He will talk about his fractious relationship with the unit s head, Robert McBride and also about his call for Parliament to dismiss him. At lunchtime on Wednesday, Parliament s presiding officers will brief the media on what they consider to have been the highlights of the 2017 parliamentary year.The Young Communist League of South Africa will hold its third national council from Thursday until Sunday in Johannesburg. The council will focus on what Deepening Youth Mobilisation for Socialism means for its members.This week public hearings on the Traditional and Khoi-San Leadership Bill will be held in the Eastern Cape. The hearings will commence in Mthatha Town Hall today, before moving to East London on Wednesday, Graaff-Reinet on Thursday and Gelvendale Community Hall in Port Elizabeth on Friday. Hearings are due to start at 10am. The bill provides for the recognition of the legitimate KhoiSan leadership and communities.Today and tomorrow, the panel headed by former president Kgalema Motlanthe, will at His People s Church in Cape Town hear from the public how they have been affected by the country s laws. The Speakers Forum appointed the panel to assess the effectiveness of key legislation passed since 1994.Dennis Cruywagennews@thenewage.co.za