AUBREY Ngoma has urged his Cape Town City teammates to avoid a Telkom Knockout title success hangover which appears to be getting the better of them. City were brought down to earth with a 4-0 loss to Platinum Stars on the Absa Premiership fixture on Tuesday at Athlone Stadium.It has happened before, a number of times, that a club fails to continue with their winning ways after being crowned champions of a cup competition. One example of the trend is city rivals Ajax Cape Town, who battled to get back to their best after winning the MTN8 last season when they ended finishing ninth on the Premiership table. City made history when they were crowned the TKO champions at the weekend after just five months of existence, beating favourites SuperSport United 2-1.Ngoma was on the score sheet and collected the man of the match accolade for his performance on the day but not so lucky against Dikwena. City have been in top form since the start of the season and top the PSL table with 24 points after 13 rounds of matches.As they head into the Christmas break, Ngoma wants his side to consolidate top spot and believes that can be achieved but they will need to be focussed. AUBREY Ngoma has urged his Cape Town City teammates to avoid a Telkom Knockout title success hangover which appears to be getting the better of them. City were brought down to earth with a 4-0 loss to Platinum Stars on the Absa Premiership fixture on Tuesday at Athlone Stadium.It has happened before, a number of times, that a club fails to continue with their winning ways after being crowned champions of a cup competition. One example of the trend is city rivals Ajax Cape Town, who battled to get back to their best after winning the MTN8 last season when they ended finishing ninth on the Premiership table.City made history when they were crowned the TKO champions at the weekend after just five months of existence, beating favourites SuperSport United 2-1. Ngoma was on the score sheet and collected the man of the match accolade for his performance on the day but not so lucky against Dikwena. City have been in top form since the start of the season and top the PSL table with 24 points after 13 rounds of matches.As they head into the Christmas break, Ngoma wants his side to consolidate top spot and believes that can be achieved but they will need to be focussed. We need to stay calm and remain focused because there are still league games that we have to play before the end of the year, Ngoma said. History has been made but there is a need for us to focus on the next task. On Friday, City will host SuperSport who will be out for reveng and will end the year away next week against Free State Stars. We want to go into the Christmas break still top of the log. Talking about their success, Ngoma credited team work and being allowed to play with freedom by coach Eric Tinkler. I think it goes down to team work. The coach, all the technical staff and the players have a strong belief. We play as a unit and that brings out the individual performances that are good on match days. I don t think it s a surprise because we have been putting in a lot of hard work. sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Sithembiso Dindi