The Gauteng provincial government has intensified efforts to unlock opportunities for young people to access employment and entrepreneurship opportunities more easily through its youth flagship programme Tshepo 500000.Delivering his political report in the provincial legislature yesterday, Premier David Makhura said since the launch of Tshepo 500000 in December 2014 a total of 354633 young people have benefitted. These are not just statistics, but actual human beings and real young people who might have fallen through the cracks if there was no determined effort and focus on giving them hope, Makhura said.The premier is determined that with the support of the Harambee Youth Employment Accelerator and the commitments made by business in the recent engagements with the provincial government, Gauteng will exceed the 500000 target.He commended all private sector organisations and state owned enterprises that have partnered with the province in giving hope to the youth .Beneficiary Seipati Mokoena from Highlands North said she is grateful to be part of the programme. I was unemployed for almost two years, thanks to the programme I am now employed at a huge retail company. After my internship I will be employed permanently, Mokoena said.Meanwhile, while the country s unemployment rate increased to 27%, Makhura said the September quarterly labour force survey revealed Gauteng recorded the highest number of new jobs created in the economy, 126000 new jobs.The Gauteng unemployment rate declined by 0.4%. The key sectors that are driving recovery are manufacturing (8.1%), finance (3.3%), agriculture and agro-processing and transport (2.8%). It is worth remembering that in 2015, our provincial economy created 209000 jobs in the formal economy and 151000 jobs in the informal economy. We are confident that the fourth quarter of 2016 will continue the positive trajectory on jobs. The Gauteng provincial government had provided financial and non-financial support to 25526 small, medium and macro enterprises, township enterprises and cooperatives. There is ample evidence to demonstrate that, step by step, we are succeeding in catalysing sustainable and meaningful economic activity in our townships. Already all linen contracts in our hospitals have been awarded to women-owned enterprises a number of whom are based in the townships. He said the provincial government was committed to spending 30% of its goods and services budget on procuring from township suppliers and enterprises.At the end of the second quarter of this year, Gauteng had already exceeded the 18% target for 2016-17 and it spent more than R6.8bn procuring goods and services from 1600 township suppliers.He said municipalities had spent more than R4.2bn on procuring goods and services from township enterprises in the 2015-16 financial year.In addition, Gauteng is developing more than 700 township-based suppliers, intergrating them into its supply chain and introducing them to the provincial government s large suppliers for absorption into their value chains.Ntombi Nkosintombin@thenewage.co.za