The makeshift bridge in Bergville that is used by pupils and teachers from Ngwadi Primary School and Sokesimbone High School is making it unsafe for them to cross when there are floods.This unreliable bridge has often forced both teachers and pupils to skip class during heavy rainfalls.A Grade 3 teacher at the primary school, Sibongile Mazibuko, said they were forced to go home when the rains come and the river is flooded. Actually it s not even a bridge. When it rains heavily, the water flows over the bridge and drags sand from the sides of the river. It becomes very difficult for us to cross it. Sometimes community members get into the water and they form a line from one end of the river to the other so we can cross. They then carry us through until we get to the other side. But it is very dangerous because if something happens you can end up dead, Mazibuko saidKZN education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said there were more than 100 schools in the province that faced a similar problem.He said the department had recently launched a pilot project using ferry boats to tackle the problem. We have identified four schools from four districts that are hard hit. Once we have finalised this pilot project, we will then say how many more schools we now need to cover, Mthethwa said.He said they had another project for pupils who have to cross rivers with water levels that are below their knees. Not all rivers can have ferry boats. If the water levels come up to your knees, you don t necessarily need a ferry boat because it s not that deep, he said. So we have something that we refer to as learner transport. We are doing it in partnership with the department of transport. It s one of those intergovernmental programmes. KZN transport spokesperson Kwanele Ncalane said the department was investing more than14 pedestrian bridges and seven vehicle bridges to meet the infrastructure backlog and to alleviate the situation of flooded bridges during the rainy season. We are prioritising those areas where kids are crossing to and from schools and also where communities have to cross to access important amenities, Ncalane said.He said they also have the Shova Kalula programme where they distribute bicycles to poor pupils who travel long distances to school. In a year we distribute more than 15000 bicycles, he said.LESLEY TSHAMANOprovinces@thenewage.co.za