ABOUT 2 million schoolgirls miss 60 days of school each year because they cannot afford sanitary pads.Some turn to having sex with older men to buy these essential products. South Africa is not alone. Unicef estimates 10% of girls in Africa miss school because of menstruation.A 17 year old from Limpopo said she resorted to a sugar daddy for sanitary towels. I was brought up by my grandmother and we have little money. We could not afford to buy sanitary pads. I used rags and tried to wash them but with homework and cooking I could not do so every day, she said. One of the men from the nearest town who comes to my area to look for young girls offered me some money if I could have a drink with him. At first it was occasional drinks but soon he wanted to have sex in the back of his car. It was horrible and degrading but he said he would look after me and that he would take precautions. I thought this was better than getting an infection so I agreed, she said.The teenager said the married men bought her clothes, make up and sanitary pads but she soon fell pregnant. When I told him about the pregnancy, he disappeared. The embarrassment of having to tell everyone I was pregnant was worse than the humiliation of not having pads, she said.She said she had been helped by a company that provides sanitary towels and since then her life had changed. I would like to plead with other girls not to fall into the same trap I fell in. Organisations like these are needed because they change our lives, she said.South African sanitary pad company Mimi said 2 million school girls cannot afford sanitary towels and this expose them to exploitation by blessers. CEO Ramona Kasavan said girls are forced to use face cloths, rags, rolled up socks and even newspapers.Other organisations Dignity Dreams and Subz Pads and Panties believe the best solution is to provide washable and reusable sanitary pads. Dignity Dreams provides six reusable sanitary pads at a cost of R130, which can last up to three years.-NONDUMISO ZWANE