South Africa s formal economy added 93 000 jobs in the third quarter, shaving 0.9% off the unemployment rate. Most of the jobs were concentrated in community services, according to the latest Stats SA Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) published yesterday. The QES is an industry-level survey of businesses and contains only formal non-agricultural employment.Overall, the QES data on employment are drawn from a survey of about 20000 VAT-registered businesses. In contrast, the Quarterly Labour Force Survey is surveyed at a household level and is based on 30000 dwelling units in which households reside. The latest gain of 93000 jobs in the formal sector was up on the 44000 and 67000 recorded in the first and second quarters respectively. But some observers, including economy added 93 000 jobs, expressed disappointment.They insist that the country is yet to heed the call on job creation and warned of social consequences. According to Stats SA data, community services lead the pack in employment creation, followed by construction, trade and electricity sector. Azar Jammine, chief economist at Econometrix, said that analysis of the QES by sector reveals that almost the entire gain in employment occurred in respect of community and social services. Not only in the third quarter, but in the full year to the third quarter, there was very little employment growth elsewhere. Employment fell on a year-on-year basis in both mining and manufacturing, perpetuating the pattern of de-industrialisation witnessed in the economy over the past eight years. Jammine said, excluding community and social services, the interpretation is that formal sector employment continues to grow significantly more slowly than the overall economy. The economy is becoming more capital-intensive in an environment in which there is a surplus of unskilled labour.This represents a worrisome picture in respect of future trends in unemployment and the associated risks of political and industrial unrest, he said. However, despite a soft increase in the third quarter, the trade federation, Cosatu expressed disappointment in the country s job figures citing that the country s unemployment rate crisis is the worst in the world at 27%. Our economic growth remains subdued.Our macroeconomic policies need to be radically overhauled in line with the radical economic shift needed at this time of crisis, Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za