The SABC snubbed a Parliamentary ad hoc committee after being not intimidated by yet another threat of litigation.The national broadcaster later walked out of a meeting. It earned itself the displeasure of the ANC and opposition parties.The broadcaster further angered the committee by refusing to hand over documents as requested. Parliament s lawyers have been instructed to go to the highest court to force the SABC to hand over relevant documents.Yesterday, the committee began its inquiry into the fitness of the SABC board, which has only one member, to continue in office.The first SABC attempt to derail the inquiry was launched last week. On Tuesday, board chairperson Prof Mbulaheni Maguvhe spoke about appealing last week s Cape High Court ruling. However the Portfolio Committee declared it would not be deterred.ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said: The utter disrespect that the SABC chairman and his lackeys continue to demonstrate against Parliament, including the very institution they lead, represents a serious attack against these public institutions and the people of South Africa. We will strongly urge Parliament to act decisively and nip this abhorrent conduct in the bud. The committee adjourned for an in-camera meeting to discuss Maguvhe s threat. Committee chair Vincent Smith said: The first point that we are making is that the non-presentation of documents is not negotiable. This committee wants those documents. We ve instructed the legal team to go to the highest court in the land. Smith continued: The second decision we took is that after listening to advice, we go back to the point we made when we stated that Parliament will not be deterred as its doing its oversight. As things stand there is no court order that prevents this committee from doing its work. We will continue today. However, the SABC team, including acting CEO James Aguma and chief executive of corporate affairs Hlaudi Motsoeneng, turned their backs on the sitting after Maguvhe, who is visually impaired, complained the documents were not in braille and would therefore jeopardise him.Members of the committee could not contain their anger after Smith opened the inquiry with a declaration that on Tuesday he was informed Maguvhe has applied for leave to appeal Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai s dismissal of his application to interdict the hearing.The anger level jumped when Smith told the committee that the SABC has refused to make available documents because disclosure may negatively impact the SABC s commercial interests .In addition, he said, three other requested documents were apparently no longer in the SABC s possession. Among these documents were those relating to the appointment of Hlaudi Motsoeneng as group executive corporate affairs, a management report responding to the auditor-general s report into the SABC, as well as reports on meetings of the broadcaster s internal audit committee.Said IFP chief whip Narend Singh: One begins to think, with all these court actions, what is there to hide? .DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za