Parastatal Transnet yesterday said its National Ports Authority s (TNPA) R7bn mega project to deepen and lengthen berths at Durban Container Terminal (DCT) has reached a key milestone and the multibillion-rand main marine construction works package will go out to tender before the end of December. This follows the two environmental approvals secured from the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) last year for marine and land-side works. The tender process for the landside works will follow at a later stage. TNPA CEO Richard Vallihu said: The continued investment in infrastructure and modernisation of our flagship Port of Durban is pivotal in meeting the ever-increasing demands of the maritime industry, in particular the ever-increasing size of container vessels pulling into our ports. The DCT: Pier 2 Berths 203 to 205 reconstruction, deepening and lengthening project forms an integral part of Transnet s market demand strategy, which is in its fifth year and aims to enable the effective, efficient and economic functioning of an integrated port system. The increased size of container vessels calling at the Port of Durban has resulted in DCT: Pier 2 berths now operating beyond their original design specification in regards to water depth. The DCT: Pier 2 handles about 65% of the total containerised cargo of South Africa and is the main link to the country s industrial and economic hub, Gauteng. The entity said it is estimated the demand through the Port of Durban is expected to grow from 2.5 million TEUs (20-foot equivalent unit) to 3.5 million TEUs, over the next 10 years. Plus, the overall R7bn project aims to improve efficiencies and reduce costs for vessels calling at the port by deepening Berths 203, 204 and 205, as well as the basin and approach channel, from 12.8m to 16.5m.The effective berthing length will be increased from 914m to 1 210m to safely accommodate the simultaneous berthing of three Super Post Panamax vessels of 350m in length and draft of 14.5m. Currently, Super Post Panamax vessels take up two berths on the North Quay, which decreases port capacity. In addition, large vessels requiring a deeper draft than 12.2m can only enter the channel at high tide, resulting in delays. Increasing the draught will enable vessels to enter at any time reducing the queue of vessels waiting . -TNA Reporter|business@thenewage.co.za