When John Kgope Mannya made the long journey from the north and landed in the Eastern Cape, it must have been an abrupt awakening to be confronted with the notion that there was such a thing as written word.He chose to acquire this new skill and in doing so catapulted himself into a small circle of converts navigating a new religion as well as literacy.Over time, he encouraged his children to dream. First there was Charlotte, then Katie, Phillip, Henry, John and finally Mary-Ann.He encouraged the children to seek education and did not place any stumbling blocks in their way. Elder sisters Charlotte and Katie opened the educational path for the rest of the family. Their mother, Anna Manci, had gone to school and it seemed only natural that her daughters would follow in her footsteps.A study of Charlotte s life illustrates the cross-currents within which that generation was caught and how they valiantly negotiated the new challenges confronting them. They made a huge effort to deal with the colonial conditions while at the same time strengthening themselves to push back the foreign imposition on their lives.Charlotte spent her early childhood on the outskirts of Uitenhage in the Eastern Cape. Her family s two-room wattle and daub farmhouse was perched on a hill in sight of other homesteads dotted across the sloping, fertile land.Across the hills, they could see a patch of bare swept earth surrounding each home, protecting it from encroaching snakes and the river running full in the valley below.In the distance, they could make out the red corrugated-iron roofs and green trees of the white people in Uitenhage, 8km away.In the late afternoons they often saw their mother, short and plump, moving up the hillside with a basket of mielies on her head and a hoe over her shoulder. She worked the fields while her husband worked on laying the railroads from Uitenhage to Port Elizabeth and into the southern African interior.Charlotte was the first to walk the 8km to the mission school in Uitenhage. Later, her sister Katie and brother Phillip joined her. Their younger brother Henry herded their father s cattle and their mother was carrying a new baby, John, on her back.The Mannya family, like so many other families, were straddling two economies, one the subsistence farming economy and the other an emergent wage earning economy.The father was involved in the emerging wage economy while at the same time accumulating cattle to which he attached great value. The mother was at home tending to the small farm that provided them with food. They were also able to sell some of the produce and earn some money.By this time, all the land had been taken over by the British and was either given or sold to white landlords.In the Transvaal, now Gauteng, black farmers entered into verbal agreements to share harvests in proportion to the economic inputs they made to the farms.I have not been able to establish whether or not the Mannyas entered into such a sharecropping agreement. Charles van Onselen wrote that while conquest made white farmers rich in land, they often did not have the tools or capital to develop the land. At the same time, landless black people sought new pastures for their livestock and searched for places to put their farming skills to work. Verbal sharecropping agreements often bound reasonably affluent black tenants to rather poor white landlords.Van Onselin meticulously recorded the life of sharecropper Kas Maine, who famously said: The seed is mine. The ploughshares are mine. The span of oxen is mine. Everything is mine. Only the land is theirs .At the time of Charlotte s birth in 1871, colonial records describe the Lesotho lowlands as constituting the granary of the Free State and parts of the Cape Colony . The prosperity of the plains was further enhanced when, four years later, diamonds were discovered at Kimberley and yet more new markets opened to the grain farmers of the interior, Van Onselen said.By 1873, when Charlotte was two years old, the BaSotho were considered to be a thriving and well-ordered people and that year they exported 10000 bags of grain maize, sorghum and wheat as well as 2000 bags of wool to adjacent territories which were themselves starting to attract a growing number of commercial farmers of European descent.Unlike other families having to make sense of the rapid change taking place, the Mannyas were one step ahead, because the mother had grown up literate her family had converted to Christianity and had been exposed to customs of the colonisers such as sitting at a table to eat. Despite her father only becoming literate as an adult, Charlotte was raised in a second-generation family exposed to missionary education.She was fortunate to have reverend Isaiah Wauchope as her teacher. He was one of the best-known earlier missionary educated teachers and had a hand in the early training of many who became well-known intellectuals.He was also involved in the socio-political efforts of that time and did not stand aside when his contemporaries needed him.Charlotte was by all accounts a good pupil and progressed rapidly. Her mother was able to read to her and her siblings and could help them when they made mistakes with reading and sums.It was fair to assume that her mother eventually talked to her about becoming a woman. She had taken her sister, Katie, out into the hills in search of special grasses and showed her how to twist them into pads to place inside herself when she was old enough for the blood to come.When Charlotte was ready for the upper school in Port Elizabeth, this meant entering domestic service. Through the church, her father approached a Mrs Hutchinson who agreed to take Charlotte in.The Edwards Memorial Church where the school was situated was on the east corner of Edwards and Campbell streets (now called Richmond Hill). The congregationalists built it as a mission church for the Xhosa, Fingoes and BaSotho.It was one of the early schools set up by members of the London Missionary Society. Later, in 1921, the Dutch Reformed Church bought the building and in 1948 a new Edwards Memorial Church was built at New Brighton.Mrs Hutchinson had no softness in her. At dawn, Charlotte carried heavy pails of water into the kitchen. While the water was heating on the iron stove, she dropped to her knees to wax the floors.As soon as the baby started to fuss, she rushed into the nursery to dress him and take him to his mother before starting the laundry. After she hung out the washing to dry, she left for school. In the afternoons she watched over the baby again until his bedtime. After that ironing and mending. She had no rest until Mr and Mrs Hutchinson finished their dinner and the servants sat down together to enjoy their evening meal.She shared a room with the housemaid above the stables where the servants lived and the stench of the horse dung rose up through cracks in the flooring. Her father visited her once a week, but she did not see any other family members.She sent letters with him that he took home on a Saturday night sharing news about her school and sometimes asking her mother to make her a new dress when her clothes became too tight.Often the family gathered on Sunday afternoons when their grandfather visited their home and read out all her letters.Zubeida JafferZubeida Jaffer is writer-in-residence at the University of the Free State. Book orders can be placed at www.beautyoftheheart.co.za. Reviews available at www.zubeidajaffer.co.za