AHEAD of the summer holiday season, the mayor of Cape Town, Patricia de Lille,this week opened the revamped, world-class Retreat swimming pool, which will benefit many in the poor surrounding areas.The opening of the communal swimming pool comes after it was revamped this year. The project saw delays after a contractor did not complete the construction by the due date. The facility has been fitted with a roof so that the community of Retreat and surrounding areas can enjoy the pool all year round.Expressing her satisfaction with the renovations, De Lille said: I want to thank the community and especially our little children, for being so patient while waiting for the pool s revamp to be completed. This has been a long time coming and I am sure that the community is as relieved as I am to finally see the roof structure completed. We are a few days into the school holidays and we have been working hard to get the pool done in time. The facility was opened last year in December for the summer season but the roof was not complete due to the non-performance of the previous contractor. The city terminated that contract and appointed a new company to complete the roof because it wanted its communities to have quality recreational facilities.De Lille said: As a caring and inclusive city, it is our duty and it was our commitment to provide communities with quality social amenities. We wanted to transform this pool into a world-class facility so that our children can have a safe place to swim, a place where they can enjoy themselves and where they can build their swimming skills so that they might possibly represent our country on the world stage one day. This week saw the Retreat Aquatics Club conducting a swimming demonstration to teach children how to be safe in the water at the pool.The Retreat Aquatics Club used this pool for many years to train swimmers and two Olympic swimmers came out of this club. Achmat Hassiem trained with the Retreat Aquatics Club as a high school pupil and in 2006 he survived a shark attack in which he lost a leg but that didn t stop him.He worked hard and continued his training and later went on to represent South Africa in three Paralympian Games in 2008 in China, in London in 2012 and most recently this year at the Rio Games.Another swimmer who came through the ranks with the Retreat Aquatics Club is Darren Murray, who represented South Africa at the 2012 Summer Olympics.The mayor said that on the city s part, they would do their best to continue providing safe places for children to play and quality recreational facilities but communities must make the best use of these facilities and everyone must work together to encourage children to make good choices.She also appealed to the community to take personal responsibility for the pool, to take care of it and make sure that no one damaged it. We will have lifeguards at the pool every day to keep an eye on everyone but I am asking everyone to be safe at the pool. Children must be accompanied by an adult at all times. I also want to wish everyone a happy and safe festive season. Enjoy this time with your loved ones and take care so that we can all go into the New Year together. Let us continue working together to take Cape Town to greater heights and continue to make progress possible together. -NADINE FORD-KRITZINGER