EVER wondered why men are fascinated by women s breasts? Well there is science behind the phenomenon, as there is for every other biological reaction we experience.Men are stereotypically regarded as (very busy) visual beings and are the only mammals fascinated by breasts in a sexual context, a study by Dr Larry Young of the University of Cape Town has revealed.Men spend on average a total of 43 minutes of their day ogling women, often up to 10 different women a day. Over a lifetime, that adds up to about a year.The study also mentions the habits of women. It found that women gaze at men for on average 20 minutes a day roughly six months of their lives and up to six men each day.Young, a university professor of psychiatry who studies the neurological basis of complex social behaviour, conducted a study on the science behind breasts , which fits among other studies conducted by other biologists.Young found that nipple stimulation enhances sexual arousal in the great majority of women and it activates the same brain areas as vaginal and clitoral stimulation. This triggers the release of the oxytocin hormone in the woman s brain, just like what happens when a baby nurses, he said. But in this context, the oxytocin focuses the woman s attention on her sexual partner, strengthening her desire to bond with this person. Sexologist Prof Elna Mcintosh said: It is not only women who are sexually aroused through nipple stimulation. Men also are but like women it just depends on the person s preferences in that context. In other words, men can make themselves more desirable by stimulating a woman s breasts during foreplay and intercourse. It is likely that evolution has a big part to play. Humans form monogamous relationships whereas 97% of mammals do not, Young said. An unconscious evolutionary drive prompts us to activate powerful bonding circuits that help create a loving, nurturing bond, which in turn will facilitate procreation.A reason this evolutionary drive is prevalent in humans may be because we walk on two legs. It might have to do with the fact that we are upright and have face-to-face sex, which provides more opportunity for nipple stimulation during sex, Young said.But the study is under scrutiny from some experts. They argue that not all men are stimulated by breasts and that the theory pertains only to sucklings. Attraction to breasts is not just male-related it is also common among females, but it is not always in a sexual context, Mcintosh said.Anthropologist Fran MasciaLees, who has written extensively about the evolutionary role of mammals, voiced similar sentiments.Mcintosh argues that our influences growing up determine our social behaviour in every aspect. Studies can be conducted, she says, but when it comes to human sexual behaviour, the influences are so varied that not everything is conclusive. It is not necessarily down to culture as to whether some men are sensitised to women s breasts or not, but down to individual preferences, Mcintosh said.-Tatenda Chitiseri