From the rural streets of Eshowe to being one of the top-selling maskandi musicians Nkosinathi Qhoshangokwenzakwakhe (boastful) Sibisi believes remaining humble and not being carried away by the hype of being a celebrity has helped make the public fall in love with him. I was raised in a home where good morals and the values of ubuntu (that I am because you are) were prioritised and I ve tried by all means to practice those values in my everyday life, he said in an exclusive interview with The New Age.He reminisced about growing up surrounded by people who embraced the traditional activities of the Zulu culture and as a cattle herd boy he also took part in games like stick fighting and participated in traditional dance groups. I was only 23 years old when I got the opportunity to work with the late Khulekani Kwakhe Khumalo, popularly known as Mgqumeni. I have been his main fan since 2003. I promoted his music and led his fan club, Sibisi said.After the death of Mgqumeni, Sibisi worked with Mqgumeni s group called Amagcokama, which was led by Khangelani DSD Mhlongo. He later moved on to the newly-formed group, Osaziwayo, as the leader of their fan club, formed by Mhlongo.The group also won the best maskandi category in the South African Traditional Music Awards. I was inspired by the late Mqgumeni to love maskandi music. His creativity was out of this world, he came up with his own different style, which accommodated us as the youth, Sibisi said.In 2012, while he was still with Amagcokamai he wrote a song titled Selwehlile Uthando and showed it to the legendary Umjikijelwa.He was so impressed that he used the song in his album for the group Ichalaha LikaShafuza on the album Hleka Ngibone. He said this was one of the highlights of his career and it motivated him to start writing songs and recording his own music. I was also encouraged by Khuzani Mpungose, who saw potential in me and believed in my craft. Sibisi has not looked back since and has bagged numerous awards including two Crown Gospel Music Awards, he is now touring the country promoting his latest offering, Bakery. I often get asked about the Crowns but I don t think it should be a surprise that as a maskandi artist I ve won gospel awards because I also write and sing about the Lord, I m a believer and I use my music to praise him, he said.NOKUTHULA NTULInokuthulan@thenewage.co.za