IT S been another eventful weekend for the Premiership teams with as many as six bottom-half teams still languishing in the relegation zone. As Ajax Cape Town grew in confidence and built some momentum, Highlands Park, Free State Stars and Platinum Stars plummeted down to the drop zone.Platinum Stars are in a dangerous spot, occupying 14th spot, and continue precariously on the downward spiral. And it may not be long before the dreaded PSL chop claims another victim in the form of Cavin Johnson, whose luck appears to be running thin this season. After 11 matches, and with nine points and two victories, the team needs to do better to survive the chop. Following Saturday s 3-2 defeat to Polokwane City, Stars continued on their downward slope after a streak of four losses. Johnson has pleaded for patience as he is confident things will change. We are sad like everybody else. We are not happy. We need to fix a few things. I take all the responsibility. That s all, Johnson said. Please be patient with us and understand the phase we are going through. All the big teams in the world have gone through that and somewhere along the line we have to turn the corner. The Urban Warriors lifted themselves from 14th spot to the tenth with a 1-0 win against Golden Arrows, courtesy of a Nathan Paulse second-half goal. Orchestrating the turnaround has been Stanley Menzo, the Dutch coach who took over from Roger de Sa.The Cape side are not out of the woods yet. They are a few points above bottom-placed Highlands, but they have certainly gained confidence from successive wins. Free State Stars registered their first victory last week, beating Dikwena 3-1, but were drubbed 4-1 by Mamelodi Sundowns at the weekend. Ea Lla Koto coach Giovani Solinas spoke about the need to strengthen his side with experienced players. We have young players from our development team. We have players who were playing in the first division and in the third division last season, it s not easy, Solinas said. We need experienced players. It s not easy to fight the big teams without experience and strong players. Bottom of the table Highlands could certainly improve but their lack of significant progress since Alan Freese left has fuelled the feeling that such a change may have been all too hasty and illadvised. Gordon Igesund has not won a single league match. But he is far from worried about the safety of his job. I m not concerned. The team are playing well and I am happy with that but we have to get results. In the past few weeks we have played all the top teams on the log, Igesund said. We have played Golden Arrows, Sundowns and we played Pirates. It has not been easy, I have changed the whole style of how we play. We are trying to play a nice brand of football of keeping possession so it takes time for the players to settle in and understand. sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Sithembiso Dindi