While some residents of Ipopeng settlement outside Oskraal in the North West celebrate having electricity connected to their homes for the first time, others complain they have been left in the dark.Power utility Eskom recently announced that 273 households of the remote settlement had received electricity connections.Among them is business owner Sthembinkosi Mali, 29, who runs a tuck shop in the area. Speaking to The New Age she expressed joy and said being connected had drastically changed her lifestyle and enterprise in the few days since the lights were switched on. We used to have to gather firewood so we could cook and our children had to wake up very early to prepare to go to school. Even when they had to write tests, how could they study because they had to rely on candle light, Mali said.She says life has become easier and her business has also reaped the benefits. I used to spend R240 for a 9kg gas cylinder for my fridge that I use in the tuck shop, which would only last for two weeks and I would have to replace it. Now R100 of electricity is enough to keep me going. During the The New Age s visit to Ipopeng, afternoon temperatures reached a sweltering high of 32 C.The extreme heat of the region posed a challenge for most residents who do not own refrigerators.Susan Khumalo, 58, has been living in the settlement for three years. I am so happy now that I will be able to buy a fridge where I can store my meat which won t go bad so quickly because of the heat, Khumalo said.Sthembiso Ndlovu, 30, said life was tough before electricity and things have improved since. People had to work hard to gather firewood and they lived in darkness. But now people are able to use fridges and they are happy they now have electricity, Ndlovu said. In the past I used to wish to buy my groceries and put them in the fridge but that needed electricity, which was not there in the past. The 273 Ipopeng households join the 929815 households who, according to Statistics South Africa s 2015 non-financial census of municipalities, receive basic electricity services in the province. Eskom in the North West has done exceedingly well in meeting and going over the target for the second quarter of 2016 ending in September and we are sure that many of our people will enjoy a Christmas with a difference, Eskom North West general manager Azwimbavhi Mamanyuha said.Nationally, StatSA revealed back in June the number of households receiving services from municipalities increased between 2014 and 2015, with provision of electricity increasing by 4.3% to 1O.8 million households. Out of 10.9 million consumer units receiving electricity, 2.7 million received electricity as a free basic service from municipalities and service providers, StatSA revealed.However, the joy of the newly connected residents is contrasted by the disappointment of others such as Thobeka Nxiweni, 61, who lives with her son Lawrence, 33, whose home remains without electricity. They (Eskom) said they may come to us in three months but you never know if they are telling the truth. What really talks is money. If you don t have any you are looked down upon, Nxiweni said.Her small plain brick house is less than 20m away from opposite neighbour Smangele Khumalo, 58, who received electricity. They said we were not part of the plan but what surprises me is that even other homes closer to the middle of the settlement were not plugged in last week, so how do you explain that? Were they also not part of the plan? The Nxiwenis say they are dismayed that people who settled in Ipopeng after them received electricity before their family. I feel hurt that other people got electricity and we did not. Others are watching TV but we can t, Lawrence Nxiweni said.The Nxiwenis, who have been staying in Ipopeng since 2014, lament that they still have to gather firewood to prepare food. My grandchildren have even gone to stay with relatives at a nearby village which has electricity because at school when they ask them about what happened on TV, they are unable to respond when they have been staying with me. The Nxiwenis remain part of the 89000 households in the province and 1.5 million nationally who still rely on wood or coal for cooking.Statistics say 34195 indigent households in the North West were provided with free basic paraffin in 2015. However, Nxiweni who relies solely on the child support grant provided for her three grandchildren, is not among those. My mother is careful about how much paraffin she uses so that she does not waste. During the visit when asked whether residents would be financially able to afford to load electricity, resident Smangele Khumalo said they would. We will afford it. Before we were using paraffin and it also costs money, it s not like we were just given paraffin, so I don t think someone would say they cannot afford electricity, Khumalo said.Eskom said it is moving towards the North West s target to connect 19285 houses by the end of this financial year (March 31, 2017).Eskom said all the newly connected households were given a demonstration on how to load electricity units after purchasing it from a legal vendor.Speaking during The New Age Business Briefing on Wednesday, outgoing Eskom CEO Brian Molefe said they were working towards 100% electrification of the province by 2020. At the moment, we are above 70% electrification of the province and the province has benefited immensely because there is infrastructure that we are building from Medupi directly to the Ngwedi substation, which is in the south of Rustenburg and is going to assist in distributing electricity to the province. So we hope to achieve universal access by 2020, Molefe said.Molefe said Eskom hoped to contribute to the provincial governments Villages, Towns and Small Dorpies (VTSD) initiative by doing business with local entrepreneurs as they continue to roll out infrastructure. Over the next three years we will be spending close to R450m per year on infrastructure in the province, which adds up to close to R1.2bn of capital expenditure that will be spent in North West. We are looking for opportunities for localisation to do business with local people from North West in expending the money in doing infrastructure roll out in the province. The New Age attempted to get comment from Madibeng municipality regarding its role in providing electricity to residents within its jurisdiction. However, multiple attempts proved unsuccessful at the time of printing.Siphiwe Mchunuprovinces@thenewage.co.za