THE city of Johannesburg has denied that an incident which led to the hospitalisation of 20 children after they inhaled what is believed to be pool acid fumes at the Zoo Lake swimming pool on Saturday afternoon, was due to negligence.Johannesburg member of the mayoral committee for community development,Nonhlanhla Sifumba, said the toxic fumes that led to the children being admitted to hospital came from a chemical that had been used to unblock a drain near the lake.She said that all the children had been discharged from hospital and that the incident had happened at the perimeter of the Zoo Lake swimming pool, which remains open since the incident.Sifumba also clarified that contrary to some reports that the number of children affected was 33, about 20 had in fact been taken ill. There had been earlier reports that ER24 and other emergency services had treated and transported 33 children. Upon assessment of the patients, it was found that most had difficulty in breathing. However, they were in a minor condition at that stage.Children attended to by ER24 are believed to be between the ages of six and about 16, an ER24 statement read. Sifumba said the poisonous emissions spread inside toward the stream after strong winds blew them in the children s direction. This did not happen because of negligence of the officials at the swimming pool, it is what you may call an act of nature because it is the wind that blew the fumes towards where people were.Unfortunately, they were inside the pool so it s not negligence on the side of officials who work at the pool. But many social media users were sceptical. Gill Fransman said it was a disgrace that there could be such negligence. How can a mistake like this happen? The question is who is going to take responsibility for what has happened? These children must be in such a state of shock, Fransman said. I really hope the parents of these innocent children are going to make a huge fuss about what has happened. It is totally unacceptable and no excuse. I hope the children affected will recover soon. JuanitaTNA REPORTER