They flew in from India on a private jet bursting with cash and ready to buy up South Africa. They operate in the shadows and are the puppet masters of the South African government.They wield huge influence behind the scenes and have amassed extraordinary wealth in just a few short years. They did this through securing lucrative government contracts, won with the help of their best mate, President Jacob Zuma.They are of course the Gupta family and this is what the press would have you believe. None of this is true!Unfortunately for the Guptas they have been cast as villains and made a scapegoat for the poor state of South Africa s economy.As we look set to slip back into recession, the Gupta family are a convenient distraction from the real issues, chronic unemployment, poor access to education and healthcare, and shamefully low levels of social mobility.Most people have heard of the Guptas but few have heard the story of how their business empire came to be. This is how it all began.In the mid- 90s, out of a garage in Johannesburg, the Gupta brothers founded Sahara, a small IT hardware import and distribution company. I was there and we had big dreams for the business.When we set out, Sahara only had eight employees. We started each working day with a company meeting at 5am. We worked 18 to 20 hours a day, seven days a week. Ajay and Atul Gupta were at the helm of the business, but it was all hands on deck.They unloaded trucks, managed stock and planned each day s deliveries. They were typical entrepreneurs just starting out; they lived to work and never ever took time off.Our big break came between 1999 and 2000 when Sahara secured contracts to distribute for a number of major, international IT hardware brands to some of South Africa s biggest retailers.We worked on significantly lower margins than our rivals and quickly grew into the biggest IT hardware distributor in South Africa.In 2003, we launched our first own brand Sahara notebook.The product beat even our best expectations and flew off the shelves. It matched our international rivals in terms of quality and was much more affordable on price.South Africans really took to the Sahara brand. By 2005 the Sahara notebook was the No 1 local notebook brand in South Africa. Between 2002 and 2008 Sahara was the No 2 brand in South Africa, just behind the electronics giant, Samsung. It was a dream come true and the Sahara brand was everywhere.The success of Sahara enabled the Gupta family, later through Oakbay Investments, to diversify their business interests into mining, media and engineering where they have replicated the same success.It is important to note that Sahara does not have a single government contract. The success of the business has been driven through private sector contracts, hard work and determination, and the ability to adapt quickly and take advantage of favourable changes in the market.The Sahara brand fell on hard times after 2008 and we struggled to compete against the global hardware technology giants. But, thanks to the Gupta brothers refocussing of our business towards technology services, such as business intelligence, 3D printing and big data analytics, the Sahara business continues to grow and thrive.Some populist politicians and the media, out to win votes peddle lies about the Gupta family and their origins, are out to grab headlines and boost their profile. But do not believe everything you read; politicians have agendas. I am extremely proud to have been part of the Sahara business from the very start. So what is my agenda?The answer is simple I seek no special favours and no subsidies. All I want is a level playing field so a long established and proudly South African business can thrive in the future.Stephan Nel | Stephan Nel is CEO of Sahara Computers