The SACP has warned that the post Polokwane ANC leadership is at a crossroads where it has to choose between talking about tackling factionalism to overcome it or ignoring this scourge. Spokesperson Alex Mashilo warned that as the ANC lurched from crisis to crisis, the narrowing of internal democratic space was becoming a reality that threatened to ruin the movement. There is no doubt that between Polokwane and now a tendency emerged to replace democratic centralism with factionalist centralism. That is why there are serious problems, Mashilo said.He lamented that ANC leaders had adopted an exclusionary posture towards the party s alliance partners after its allies campaigned for themselves to assume leadership roles. We all campaign to win elections, but thereafter we are told of prerogatives of some leader or this or that aspect being exclusively an ANC process. These are the things that weaken the alliance. Mashilo s comments come against the background of interventions being made by ANC stalwarts and MK veterans to help direct the ANC out of the political woods. The stalwarts who are signatories to For the Sake of our Future document have had their call for a consultative conference agreed to by the ANC and the MK veterans led by Gen Siphiwe Nyanda, are set to convene an urgent council meeting to unpack the crisis engulfing the ANC.Mashilo said collective leadership in relation to decision making in the ANC could not be put on the backburner. The revolutionary principles, including extensive and meaningful consultation on all major decisions not excluding appointments and policy direction; accountability and control by the revolutionary alliance.High quality and effective service to our people; honesty, consistency and reliability, unity and cohesion, must prevail. If not, the many deviations that have emerged will ruin the movement. Mashilo said although there were certain quarters in the ANC who have denied the existence of corporate capture, the SACP would continue to be at the forefront in the fight against the practice of state capture . There is no doubt that there is factional destabilisation and looting, including corruption, patronage and corporate capture. In 2015 the alliance summit identified these problems. Only factionalists later said corporate capture, for example did not exist. The SACP remained principled through and through to the alliance commitment to combat the problem. We do not just talk, we are consistent both in what we say and what we do. BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za