If his enemies have their way, the state presidency of Jacob Zuma will end well before 2019.Last week he staved off another ANC internal putsch to fight another day.If President Zuma is to survive full term, he has about 30 months left to leave his mark. But what will be his legacy? His critics will say his record will be forever blotted by Nkandla, cronyism and claims of corruption.What are the facts?What could turn out to be one of South Africa s most seminal documents, the National Development Plan, was conceptualised by Trevor Manuel, right? No, it was Zuma s brainchild. It was under his watch that the child grant system was fully rolled out, saving millions of South Africans from abject poverty.The centrepiece of his legacy, however, will remain South Africa s highly successful campaign to stem the ravages of the HIV-Aids epidemic that has already killed millions of our people.On World Aids Day last week we were once again reminded of the horror journey traversed from Aids denialism to the last decade s success in beating back an insidious and fatal.The government received high praise from Microsoft founder Bill Gates, one of the world s most generous philanthropists: But passion and funding alone are not enough. When I was in Durban for the Aids conference in July I was reminded of how forward thinking national policies can change millions of lives.In South Africa, more than 3 million people now have access to treatment and far fewer babies are born with HIV each year. South Africa is also a leader on prevention, with its recent approval of PrEP and ongoing investment in the search for new tools. The Aids virus is the harbinger of terrible suffering and has inflicted a huge social cost. Appropriately, World Aids Day was a day of remembrance for the millions of lives lost to the disease.But in South Africa we must not be shy to also mark it as a day of celebration, for recognising how far we have come as a nation in tackling an issue that has impacted upon our growth for far too many years.As recently as 2009, South Africa was widely perceived as having the largest Aids problem on the planet. We were notorious for poor management of the disease, which was compounded by a leadership who for years denied the existence of the problem.President Thabo Mbeki and his ministers repeatedly denied the extent to which HIV and Aids were an issue in South Africa.Despite official classification as a pandemic five years earlier, at the 2000 International Aids Conference in Durban, Mbeki repudiated the extent of the virus impact, stating that South African immune deficiency related disease statistics were not a result of HIV and Aids at all.As a result, very little treatment was provided to our nation s sufferers, with then health minister Manto Tshabalala-Msimang advocating a diet of olive oil, lemon and garlic as a cure to an overstated issue. Today, despite the disease remaining incredibly prevalent, we are now described by the World Health Organisation as having one of the best management strategies on the planet. Yes, infection rates are still too high, but our ability and capacity for treating the disease has grown enormously after major overhauls of our country s Aids policy.At least 7 million South Africans are living with HIV or Aids (UNAids Gap Report 2016), with about studies equating infection numbers to be around 12%-19% of our total population. We still have the globe s highest number of people living with HIV and 1000 new infections are reported every day (South African Medical Research Council).But now, we also have the largest antiretroviral treatment programme available in the world. Every year, since Zuma announced his 2010 policy overhaul, South Africa invests R14bn of domestic resources to run our HIVAids programmes (South African Department of Heath Global Aids Response Report). These resources are contributing to an ongoing effort to lessen the effects of the disease on our society.HIV and Aids overwhelmingly impacts upon our nation s most vulnerable, namely our young, female and black populations. The virus is most prevalent among women under 40, with roughly four out of five reported cases between the ages 20 and 24 being female (UNAids Gap Report 2016).The statistics show similar sharp divides along racial lines 13.6% of black South Africans are HIV positive, whereas by comparison only 0.3% of the white population is infected (Avert). The social impacts of this demographic spread are not the only effect that the pandemic is having on our country. GDP growth generated by likely HIV positive demographic groups is reported to be 0.6% lower than among groups traditionally unaffected by the disease (TIPS South Africa). There is more unemployment and lower education levels amongst groups where HIV and AIDS are most common.To date, the epidemic has killed more than 5 million South Africans. It is an obscenely large number, the only other times in modern history that a country has experienced such a loss were at times of major crisis, such as war or genocide. And yet, 2016 marks a year of progress towards beating the disease once and for all.According to the South African Medical Research Council, we are on the verge of eliminating mother to child transmission of HIV for good, which will dramatically slow the spread of the virus and the government has announced plans for new vaccines to prevent transmission to adults.South Africa has much to look forward to as we continue to fight this battle. And I for one am proud of my country, Zuma, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi and his team for taking the fight to this microscopically small but devastating enemy.Moegsien Williams Moegsien Williams is editor-in-chief of The New Age