The government is battling with an RDP housing title deeds backlog of more than 700000 cases including pre-1994 housing stock.The Department of Human Settlements has ring-fenced R300m to clear out 200000 title deeds during this financial year.Housing expert Kerwin Lebone said the department would need at least R720m to clear the backlog at a cost of R800 each, which is the 2010 price, for the registration of each house.The department s spokesperson Tuso Zibula said in some cases the reluctance by beneficiaries to take ownership of their houses to avoid paying for services such as water and refuse removal was causing the delays. With some, it is family disputes where the original beneficiaries are deceased, approved beneficiaries cannot be traced or informal sales and the time it takes to confirm township establishments, Zibula said.Lebone said skills shortages and red tape were also reasons for the delays. The shortage of professionals like engineers, land surveyors, technical specialists and lawyers within municipalities makes the township registration and proclamation processes even lengthier, Lebone said.Beauty, 21, lives in Ivory Park with one sibling. She is an orphan and has been waiting for her parents title deeds for seven years. I struggle to do a lot of things because of the unavailability of the title deed. When I m required to produce proof of residence, I have to ask for it from someone else so that I can access basic services, Beauty said.Mamkhulu Busi, 54, of Tshepisong, south of Joburg, said she received documents titled title deeds in 2013. She has not had a chance to enquire about the documents due to time constraints of working as a domestic worker.However, Busi is convinced the documents are not the actual legal documents confirming her ownership. The forms I have with me do not have my name or my children s names, Busi said. In an effort to fast-track the title deeds process, Zibula said some municipalities have established task teams.Lebone said there were major economic and social consequences arising from the delay in the issuing of title deeds.He said it distorts the township property market in that people are selling their RDP houses for way below the cost price. Beneficiaries are prevented from full participation in the mainstream economy as they cannot use their properties as collateral to secure loans for businesses, private education and healthcare, he said. 701198-TNA Reporter