Steve Komphela will enjoy Christmas without any stress, provided that Kaizer Chiefs beat Golden Arrows in their final match of the year at Moses Mabhida Stadium tomorrow. Weeks of insults and missiles directed at him ended when his side defeated Polokwane City 3-2 on Sunday. The win also ended an eightmatch winless drought. Komphela admitted after their hardfought victory that he was relieved to see the supporters leave FNB Stadium smiling following weeks of hate and threats. I think where we are, we are not more into personal stuff, he said. You have to take it the minute you are given this responsibility, it s purely professional. Unfortunately some of the stuff which is professional is going to affect you personally. I m more relieved for the supporters and everybody around the club. What we just went through, it just can t be, so this is more of a confidence (boost) to the players to an extent where you are thinking: Can it be that all their hard work can be rewarded? A reward to them, confidence to them and joy to our supporters. but the journey still continues. Still a long way to go. Komphela also said he wouldn t be quitting just yet, despite calls from the fans to tender his resignation. He said he had been enjoying support from Chiefs chairperson Kaizer Motaung in the past few weeks. Our chairperson is always the first one at the village, sometimes the last one, Komphela said. He is always with you. He does engage a lot, even after our match against Polokwane City. It s usual that at half time he will be there and be with us to give us inspiration. He had a small talk with the team. He appreciated the second-half performance and he said we rectified the mistakes. The character and the fighting spirit, which was important, was to get three points. Players must get confidence. Komphela will hope that senior players such as Bernard Parker and Willard Katsande will carry the team to another victory come the Arrows match tomorrow.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza