*NTHABISENG, 34, is supposed to be in her sexual prime at least according to several statistics but sex is the one thing she s least interested in.With one child and constant pressures that come with a busy career as an actress and parttime model, sex doesn t feature at all her list of priorities, which might be what primarily led to the collapse of her most recent relationship.But even during her relationship with *Steve, Nthabiseng admits that their sex life less frequent than it used to happen had taken a turn for the worse. I used to avoid sex as much as I could for many reasons during the last two years of my four year relationship with Steve, she said. Besides that, I had the lowest sex drive the few times I tried squeezing in some intimacy with him. I just hated how painful penetration felt during intercourse. Things were fantastic at first between us but it was a little over a year after the birth of my twoyear-old son that I started going off sex. I don t even remember the last time I had an orgasm to be honest, which could have been one of things that made him undesirable and unloved. Sexual dysfunction is barely a topic of discussion among couples in marriages and long term relationships, but it is a real problem affecting 43% of women and 31% of men report, from a report published on National Centre for Biotechnology Information.Whether it s lack of enthusiasm in sex, anorgasmia (a person who has never had an orgasm), vaginal tightening, erectile disfunction or worse still urinary incontinence (which can come with aging or childbirth), sexual disorders are more common than we ever thought and can have serious implications in the quality of the life of couples, even leading to divorce in some instances.It is for this reason that a procedure that promises to enhance sexual pleasure especially for women was invented.The Orgasm Shot (O-Shot) first caused good vibrations among middle-aged women (from 35 upwards) two years ago when the who s who of Hollywood attending the Oscars were greeted with a swag gift bag promising to do just that.A game-changer for women couples everywhere, the procedure was designed by Alabama cosmetic doctor Charles Runels (better known as the creator of the vampire facial made famous by Kim Kardashian) to help regenerate healthy vaginal tissues by extracting platelet-rich plasma from a woman s own blood and injecting it directly into the vaginal area.Since then women of all ages have been queuing up in great numbers and patiently waiting their turn of this magic shot which can be administered by a select few certified surgeons worldwide. The New Age reached out to Nicole Kanaris, one of the few aesthetic doctors trained to perform the trademarked procedure in South Africa. I trained in Beverly Hills in March 2016 and recently became the only trainer for the O-Shot and vampire procedures in South Africa, Kanaris said. I now train other doctors too, she said.Explaining the magic behind the invention, Kanaris said: There s nothing more amazing than your body healing itself. Platelet-rich plasma injected into any tissue of the body causes amazing regeneration of this tissue. It really is phenomenal and safe. Performance athletes have been using it for years for joint regeneration. As with any medical procedure which comes with possible risks, Kanaris said the procedure requires the right patient at the right time. One must ensure that the patient fits the criteria and is healthy, she said. Since her return from the US earlier this year, Kanaris has been performing the procedure at her Edenvale-based aesthetic centre, Mode De Vie, with no adverse effects reported so far. I have had patients flying in from Cape Town and others from Witbank, Durban and Bloemfontein, she said. I ve even had two patients from other African countries flying in to have the procedure done. It has been a true joy to treat women and be able to help them with their sexual health problems and then, of course, it spills over into their relationships as well. Although it comes at a price with three to four more times as high in places like the UK and US Kanaris charges R5 500 per session for the procedure which she said can last for 18 up to 36 months depending on the individual s lifestyle .* Not their real names.-Tankiso Komane