Stemming the flood of unskilled migrants flocking into South Africa remains a challenge for both the Department of Home Affairs and the Department of Labour.Department of Home Affairs spokesperson Mayihlome Tshwete says there is a collective responsibility for government departments to ensure that the employment of foreign labour does not have an adverse effect on the recruitment and employment of South African citizens. The Department does not have a specific policy on unskilled labour, he said. However, we do not issue work visas for unskilled labour except in a few special circumstances, such as the Zimbabwean Special Permit and the Lesotho Special Permit. The two dispensations were put in place to regularise unskilled nationals from the two countries who were working in the country illegally.Tshwete said the department had published a paper on migration in the Government Gazette, which includes a chapter on the management of unskilled migrants. The paper is open for public comment.The story of unskilled labour has a long history in South Africa and was particularly important to the development of the country s mining industry.When gold was discovered in the Witwatersrand in 1886, it led to the establishment of a migrant labour system that contributed to the construction of modern-day South Africa.The unskilled labour market was largely populated by so-called foreign nationals, who included residents of the various apartheid-era homelands. Consequently, unskilled migrant labour has become a dominant player in South African social dynamics and the economy at large.Cosatu has said that the revised Immigration Regulations Act, which took effect in May 2014, does not address the question of unskilled labour and ignores the long history of migrant labour as well as the current situation in which millions of unskilled migrants work illegally in South Africa. The regulations provide for work visas for scarce skills, former Cosatu spokesperson Patrick Craven said. To get such visas, both the employers and the Department of Labour have to certify that they cannot find persons with the relevant skills within South Africa, and the South African Qualifications Authority has to certify the applicants qualifications. The overwhelming majority of the millions of Basotho, Swazi, Mozambican, Zimbabwean, Malawian and other workers in South Africa are unskilled, working without work visas and plying their trades as farm workers, gardeners, domestic workers, mine workers, traders or security guards. This silence on the matter in the legislation ensures that unskilled migrant labour remains illegal. This leaves the workers vulnerable to exploitation, abuse and deprivation of their labour rights, he said.Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla says that 36% of unemployed South African workers are already struggling to find long-term employment. We support the government s skilled labour policies, whereby employers and the Department of Labour must prove that there are no available South Africans that can be employed before employing foreign labour, he said.Pamla says that these workers are often paid miniscule wages and often experience infringements on their human and labour rights. This is because they cannot seek legal redress or unionise due to their illegal status. Special arrangements must be made for countries like Lesotho and Swaziland, which depend on the remittances of their migrant workers in South Africa. deally, we should integrate Lesotho and Swaziland into South Africa as they are not sustainable and host the same people and cultures as are found in South African, Pamla said, somewhat radically.HLONI MASHIGOnews@thenewage.co.za