North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo said criminality is behind violence at the North West University and those involved have nothing to do with education. Mahumapelo was delivering his State of the Province Address speech on Friday. &#8220;We condemn this violence and appeal to all role players to put the interest of the students and the institution above their narrow political interests&#8221; said Mahumapelo &#8220;There is an criminal element with what is happening at the University and this has to be investigated,&#8221; Mahumapelo added. With Regard to higher education funding, Mahumapelo said R30 million had already been provided by Government. Mahumapelo also announced a skills development collaboration between the Department of Higher Education, Skills Education Training Authorities (SETA) and the NW provincial government to &#8220;establish a Provincial Skills Centre in the Province at a tune of R9 million in the context of our Ikatisong programme for the youth. The Centre will empower the Youth with relevant skills to ensure sustainability and increase employability of all beneficiaries of the programme, Said Mahumapelo Meanwhile, North West University vice-chancellor Prof Dan Kgwadi announced that the University will possibly open within in a month. Professor Kgwadi said students would be provided with a months&#8217; notice before the campus officially opens. The University was closed indefinitely following a science building on campus being set alight. Yesterday the University announced that former Student Representative Council President Linda (Benz) Mabengwana would be suspended from the North West University for three years. &#8220;Mr Mabengwana was found guilty on five of the six charges brought against him. These include the disruption of the registration process at the Mafikeng Campus on 25 January 2015 and the assault of a fellow student on the same day&#8221; reads part of a statement by the university. Mabengwana&#8217;s suspension has been communicated to all institutions of higher learning in South Afric. Mabengwana has consistently refuted claims that the EFF was behind the torching of the science building as well as the incitement of violence on the Campus. &nbsp;