The R500m settlement reached in the silicosis case between former gold mineworkers and two mining companies will not necessarily be divided equally among the 4 365 claimants, lawyers representing them said at the weekend.Law firms Mbuyisa Neale and Leigh Day, acting for the gold miners and relatives of deceased miners who sued Anglo American South Africa and AngloGold Ashanti, clarified speculation on the amounts to be paid to individual claimants by the Qhubeka Trust.The trust is a product of the settlement. Several public misstatements we have seen speculating on the amounts to be paid to individual claimants are unhelpful, especially to the victims.It is also unhelpful to use this incorrect information as a reference point for assessing compensation that might be appropriate in the silicosis class action, the lawyers said.Addressing the issue, spokespersons Richard Meeran and Zanele Mbuyisa said the value of the total settlement amount to be paid into the trust would be about R500m and bother mining firms will fund the operation of the trust. The settlement amount will be divided among those of the 4 365 claimants who are confirmed by the trust to have or have had silicosis. However, it is incorrect to divide this total sum by the total number of claimants in the group in order to reach an average award of R115000, they said. This is because the vast majority of the claimants are yet to be evaluated by the medical panel of the trust. Based on a random sampling exercise prior to the settlement, it is anticipated that up to 60% of the claimant group will be found by the trust to have silicosis.This means the total amount of the settlement will be unaffected by how many claimants are confirmed with silicosis. The medical panel will arrange to examine and test the claimants in the localities where they live. After that process, the lawyers said, the amount of compensation paid to individuals will depend on the number of claimants found to have silicosis or silico-tuberculosis, the severity of the affliction and the ages of the individuals.Therefore, individual claimants would receive differing amounts. Each sufferer would receive an initial payment following the medical evaluation. We will not comment, publicly, on likely individual awards. Completion of the whole process is expected to take three to four years, Meeran and Mbuyisa said.In addition to payment by the trust, it would arrange for claims to be submitted to the Medical Bureau of Diseases for compensation under the Occupational Diseases Act (ODMWA).This presently allows for a payment of R47 000 for stage one illness and R105000 for stage two.The ODMWA compensation is available only when the level of permanent disability caused by the disease exceeds 10%.The firms assessment is that about 20% of the claimants who have been found to have silicosis may not meet this threshold and such claimants compensation will be limited to compensation by the trust.-Sello Rabothatasellor@thenewage.co.za