START-UP company Technovera has taken first prize in the annual #Hack.Jozi challenge. The company uses technology to allow patients with chronic conditions to collect their medication in just a few minutes.The #Hack.Jozi challenge is a boot camp for start-up entrepreneurs that is aimed at contributing towards fostering skills, innovation and entrepreneurship in the broad area of digital technology.The top 10 finalists went through the boot camp and mentorship process that began at the end of March.This initiative is initiated by the department of economic development of the city of Johannesburg and Wits University s Joburg Centre for Software Engineering.The programme supports capacity development, job creation and enterprise development. Technovera founder Neo Hutiri walked away with the prize of R1m as the overall winner of the challenge while R700000 is split between the first and second runners-up.The unique selling point in the business, Hutiri said, was that chronic and stable patients are able through technology to collect medications in a few minutes time as opposed to standing for hours in queues. I used to be a patient collecting treatment from a public clinic. It s really an unpleasant experience to wait the whole day just to manage your condition. We want to improve patient care by ending the indignity of long queues, he said.The second runners-up was mobile tutoring service Tuta-Me founded by Abed Tau, Dylan Hyslop and local celebrity Maps Maponyane.Tuta-Me is a mobile application that connects tutors and students and provides tutoring services to students that need them.The unique selling point of the application is that it looks at integrating students and tutors while allowing students to find tutors that best meet their needs in terms of subject, area and time. We are tutoring on demand the Uber of tutors, Tau said. The second runner up in the #Hack. Jozi challenge is a qualified architect, Lomile Mokoka.Mokoka is the founder of e-Submit, an e-solution for submitting building plan applications to the municipality.The unique selling point of the company is that the business model allows the municipalities to use the service for free which reduces barriers to doing business with the government. The users pay for the service . My business idea was formed from personal experience therefore I have gone to great lengths to thoroughly research my idea and my clients. -Sello Rabothatathelman@thenewage.co.za