The MEC for human settlements, Bonginkosi Madikizela, has called for cooperation from residents of the informal settlement in Khayelitsha in Clanwilliam to allow a survey to be conducted.This survey will give the government an indication on how it can intervene in providing housing and basic services to residents. Last week Madikizela addressed the community of Khayelitsha informal settlement in Clanwilliam and appealed to the residents to cooperate with the Cederberg municipality who were conducting the survey. It is important for the government to conduct a survey before beginning any development. It is important especially for the municipality to conduct a survey to determine the demographics, the socio-economic details and the number of people that live in Khayelitsha. This information will help the government in planning and providing services to people in the area. In general, access to basic services in Khayelitsha informal settlement is inadequate, Madikizela said.He said the Cederberg municipality in partnership with the department of human settlements, attempted to conduct a survey in the informal settlement which was also battling with the scourge of crime especially drugs. However, the attempted survey coincided with a SAPS raid in the area and the community accused the municipality of collaborating with the police, which resulted in disorder.Madikizela intervened and clarified the matter and told residents about the importance of conducting a survey to provide service delivery in the informal settlement that was growing rapidly. According to the Cederberg municipality, the old Khayelitsha had 1500 informal households while the new Khayelitsha had about 900 structures. This number was also rapidly growing due to migration. Completed in 2010, the old Khayelitsha already includes an upgrade of informal settlement project (UISP) consisting of 380 services sites with access to water and sanitation, he said.Despite the enormity of the task at hand the Cederberg municipality provided some chemical toilets, stand pipes and refuse skips in an attempt to provide services to the area.Meanwhile, an application to the department for funding to do the necessary planning for a project to address the needs of the informal settlement, was received on October 10. The survey will assist in providing a solution to address the challenges with access to basic services, Madikizela said.Vincent Cruywagenvincentc@thenewage.co.za