Renowned American guitarist, Gary Wittner is in Mahikeng to conduct classes for those in the music industry.The classes target organised bands or ensembles in and around Mahikeng.The workshop is made possible by the US consulate general in Johannesburg and will be held at Mmabana Arts and Culture Foundation today and tomorrow.Marketing and communications manager at Mmabana, Trinity Bogosi said: Gary was a Fulbright Specialist in 2008 at Tshwane University of Technology. He is returning to South Africa to continue working with colleagues that he met during his Fulbright specialist programme. He has graciously made himself available for our programmes. Some of the topics Gary will likely touch on include introduction to improvisation, working with music students (or general population) introducing the concept of improvisation and offering several formats in which to explore improvisation. He will do guitar clinics focusing on blues/jazz/Latin music typically for guitar players of all levels. Private lessons are also possible, usually for more advanced/promising students. There is an opportunity for him to coach jazz or rock ensembles. Discussions on his career through different musical styles will also come to fore. Here he focuses on his personal trajectory via blues/folk Americana, jazz standards, Latin styles, composing original instrumental music and composing/performing original vocal compositions, Bogosi said.In the past, Gary has taught and developed courses in jazz history, rock and roll history, jazz theory, ear training, music business, ensembles and private lessons.He was the jazz and contemporary music department coordinator in 1996 and was given the university s distinguished scholar award the same year. Outside of the university, Gary continued to develop his presentations on the music and life of Thelonious Monk. To date, he has presented this programme at clubs and universities throughout the US and in Canada, Poland, Russia, England, Wales, Austria, France and South Africa. He has been a featured artist in concerts with Christian McBride, Reggie Workman, Richard Davis, Eddie Gomez, Clark Terry, Art Lande and many others, Bogosi said.Gary has also performed for the Monk family and his first book, Thelonious Monk for Guitar published by the Hal Leonard Corp, was released internationally in 1999 and has received international acclaim. As a member of the New York base trio WAG, Gary has twice been chosen as a Kennedy Centre/US Department of State jazz ambassador, with performances at the Capital Building, The Kennedy Centre, and tours of Serbia/Montenegro/Slovenia (2001) and Papua New Guinea/Fiji (2003). In 2006, Gary received grants from the International Association of Jazz Educators and the Maine Arts Commission for performances/clinics at the South African National Arts Festival and the University of Cape Town, Bogosi said.Elfas Toreraielfast@thenewage.co.za