Four young staff members from the Square Kilometre Array SA (SKA SA) took part in the Greatest Young System Engineer challenge at the 12th International Council system engineering conference in Pretoria.The challenge aimed to foster a deep interest in system engineering in young graduates by means of solving a defined business problem using advanced engineering principles. One of the staff members, Tyrone van Bella, said the challenge was eye opening and what she learnt would come in handy for her career. It was an opportunity to learn and apply the methods, processes and principles of system engineering, she said. Aphiwe Holele said it was interesting to engage with graduates from across the country and share experiences and opportunities. It was a different domain which took me out of my comfort zone, but it gave me a chance to think out of the box, think independently and formulate my own rationale. I learnt to appreciate the importance of a project management plan, Holele said.The teams had to develop and evaluate concepts which would enable a conductor and his orchestra to continue their global performances after he lost both his arms and a lower leg in an accident.Team SKA won second place and will take part in other challenges abroad. CEO of the Engineering Council of South Africa, Sipho Mandonsela, said more female pupils needed to consider engineering as a career choice. Madonsela spoke at a two-day conference hosted by the Department of Science and Technology in Port Elizabeth recently. The council is working on a policy framework aimed at establishing engineering academics to boost the number of local engineers, he said.The department of science and technology says South Africa has between 16000 and 17000 registered engineers and needs 108000 to reach the global average. Madonsela said with one engineer serving 3000 people, the situation wasdire and must be addressed. Engineering has become less attractive to young people, causing concern among industry stakeholders. In Africa the problem is particularly chronic, as it hampers infrastructure development, he said.Tiisetso Manokoprovinces@thenewage.co.za