About 18 patients have had free hip and knee replacement surgeries at the Mahikeng Provincial Hospital.This was made possible by Smith &amp; Nephew, a multinational organisation that has established itself in South Africa for more than 80 years and carries out surgical operations as part of its social responsibility programme.Smith &amp; Nephew has divisions for orthopaedic reconstruction, advanced wound management, arthroscopy and orthopaedic trauma.Through its dedicated team of highly qualified physicians, the organisation provides extensive and intensive education for both doctors and nurses in South African hospitals.The Mahikeng Provincial Hospital was among the beneficiaries this year and 18 identified patients for hip and knee replacement surgeries. Hospital spokesperson Mosotho Makhoba said that the surgeries were done at no cost as Smith &amp; Nephew brought its own resources. They also brought a team of orthopaedic surgeons led by Dr Paul Rowe, whose responsibility was to guide and advise the hospital management and orthopaedic staff on the most effective way to select patients, the best options regarding the surgeries and ensure that outcomes achieved are of the highest possible standards, he said.The two orthopaedic surgeons who led the processes, Dr Tsietsi Bogatsu from Mahikeng Provincial Hospital and Rowe from Victoria Hospital in Cape Town expressed their happiness about the work the team did. We planned to operate on five patients a day but due to the high dedication levels of our team, we did six patients on Wednesday, six on Thursday and another six on Friday.We must also appreciate Dr Moagi from Rustenburg s Job Shimankane Tabane who came to lend a helping hand on Wednesday, though he had to go back the same day, his help came in handy, Bogatsu said.Some of the patients said they were happy to receive the needed surgery. I m grateful for the knee replacement operation. I was going through pain but now I feel that it has subsided, Tshegeco Mahlangu from Kraaipan, said.Tebogo Choina, 43, a mother of two was grateful to have a hip replacement in both her hips. I had to quit work because I could not even stretch my legs and there were instances where I could not even move. I believe that after I have healed completely I will be able to look for a job so that I can feed my kids, she said.Smith &amp; Nephew said: We are humbled as Smith &amp; Nephew to realise that our programme has helped the most vulnerable group in the society the elderly and those who come from disadvantaged communities and backgrounds. Acting hospital chief executive officer, Johanna Taljaard said: I m over the moon because for the previous months, some of these patient s operations had to be postponed because of certain challenges. Smith &amp; Nephew came in handy because they did major operations and cut costs for the hospital. We are looking forward to having other companies lending a helping hand for good causes, Taljaard said.Elfas Toreraielfast@thenewage.co.za