THERE is little doubt that one massive loss can be enough to derail any team. It could be even worse when a defeat comes in the lucrative MTN8 final, where Mamelodi Sundowns were prematch favourites. The 3-0 defeat to Wits has surely knocked some of the confidence Sundowns built during their recent incredible run of form. As things stand, Pitso Mosimane’s side has just more than 10 days to get over the humiliating defeat to Wits and shift focus to their CAF Champions League final, where they will face Zamalek of Egypt. With one trophy in the form of the MTN8 having eluded the Brazilians, midfielder Tiyani Mabunda said the team will now have to focus on the Champions League trophy, even though it is not easy to forget about the loss to Wits. Mabunda was among the Sundowns players who could only watch as Wits ran rings around his side at the Mbombela stadium. While he has urged his teammates to give an immediate response, the 28-year-old former Black Leopards man has rubbished suggestions that Sundowns are no longer a force to be reckoned with. “It is not easy to accept this defeat, especially when you are used to winning. “What we have to do now is to bounce back immediately. We have lost one or two matches, but we always manage to regroup and bounce back. “The trick is to not dwell too much on the loss and dust ourselves off even though this is a difficult one to swallow,” Mabunda said. “But Sundowns are a big-hearted team. We have played and lost bigger games and still managed to come back. This is why I don’t think one loss in a final would make us a bad team overnight. Of course this hurts more because we are used to winning. This is a strange, difficult feeling. We will not let this loss destabilise us, especially going into the Champions League final.” The only comfort Sundowns can get ahead of their two Champions League matches is that they managed to beat Zamalek both home and away during the group stages of the competition. That will be a big confidence boost, given the fact that Sundowns are wounded and need all the motivation they can get. Unlike Sundowns, Zamalek have managed to bounce back from their 5-2 loss to Wydad Casablanca in the second leg of the Champions League by beating Al Nasr Taa’den 2-0 in a league match. mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za -Mmasekepe Matsebane