Sustainable funding model for small businesses came under the spotlight during the annual stakeholder forum meeting in Kimberley on Friday.MEC for finance, economic development and tourism Mac Jack said small medium micro enterprises were key in creating employment and eradicating poverty in previously disadvantaged communities.Jack said the sector played a crucial role in the provinces s economy especially for women and young people.He announced that his department had allocated more than R80m to support small businesses and cooperatives with the mandate of creating jobs and ensuring greater diversification of economic activity. Most SMMEs in the province operate in the trade and accommodation industries, however, the number declined between 2008 and 2015, while there was a significant increase for the community services and construction sectors, he said.Jack said there was great need for small business to penetrate other sectors such as electricity, water and mining. Most small businesses are still operating in the informal sector. While the level of education of the owners improved during the past seven years, it did not seem to boost the number providing professional services, he said.The MEC was speaking at the small enterprise development agency annual stakeholder forum aimed at addressing challenges faced by informal traders in the province and across the country.Meanwhile Jack said business in the province encountered a number of hiccups which contributed negatively to its growth and sustainability. There are, however, a number of risks and challenges facing small businesses such as access to finance and credit, infrastructure, low levels of research and development and lack of access to markets. He said there was a great need for government to focus on businesses in rural areas to better the lives of ordinary citizens. The government is aiming to put policies, strategies and programmes in place to create an enabling environment for small business. According to the department, 210 SMMEs and 91 cooperatives were assisted through the provision of both financial and non-financial support services. About 83 informal traders across the province completed business and financial management skills training and were presented with their certificates, Jack said.The provincial government also announced the partnership it had formed with state-owned entities to bridge the gap of skills and to expose local business to available procurement opportunities.Eskom and Transnet are some of the state owned enterprises which are set to assist with the development of informal traders in the province. These enterprises together with the department have committed to participate in a national campaign in partnership with Proudly South Africa to create awareness on the economy-wide benefits of buying locally manufactured products. Jack said his department prioritised youth and women-led business in the province with 250 of such projects assisted in forming partnership with various stakeholders for economic opportunities. Twenty five women were trained in both Frances Baard and ZF Mgcawu districts in clothing and textiles manufacturing projects through the Bavumile initiative in partnership with the Department of Trade and Industry. Tourism was also mentioned as one of the key economic drivers in the province. To address the scourge of poverty within the Pixley Ka Seme district, we will make funds available for a guest farm for the development of cooperatives, he said.-Tiisetso Monoko