Authorities in the Eastern Cape are investigating a case of arson after Xanadu Melody clubhouse at Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University’s (NMMU) South campus was set alight on Sunday morning. NMMU spokesperson Zandile Mbabela said police and campus security were investigating the cause of the blaze while at the same working to try to determine the extent of the damage. Mbabela said despite the incident, the plan was for staff to return to work yesterday so that academic activities can resume today. “The situation on campus so far is quiet and operational staff are back at work in preparation for the resumption of lectures. “Security and the police contingent on campus are monitoring the situation. The university views this incident in a serious light and the matter is under police investigation,” she said. While law enforcement tries to figure out what happened, NMMU #FeesMustFall movement distanced itself from the arson and blamed rogue elements that want to delegitimise their struggle. “We are fighting for free education and we understand that after we win this fight we need an institution to return to, one with infrastructure to build a better tomorrow, one with facilities that speak to the needs of Africa and the world over,” the movement said. “We are angry that our facilities have been disrespected to this degree, similarly we are of the opinion that arson is not a revolutionary act but a crime that should not go unattended, thus as a movement we strongly condemn such acts. “We will work with law enforcement in our capacity to ensure that those who threaten to harm our resources are brought to book, similarly we encourage all of those who know anything to come forward to ensure the same.” The movement said what mattered most was that they remained resolute in their fight for free decolonised education and nothing would counter their efforts to achieve that mission. “Let it be known to all of those who aspire to delegitimise us that we will not let you, let it be known to all of those we fight alongside that even in the face of such adversity we will keep our eyes firmly fixed on our goal,” the statement from the #FeesMustFall movement said. On the other hand, the Student Representative Council urged all students who may have gone home due to protests and closure of the institution to arrange a return and prepare for the imminent resumption of the academic year. Indiphile Boyce provinces@thenewage.co.za