A distant relative of alleged &#8216;triggerman&#8217; in the Jayde Panayiotou case said he saw Sizwe Vumazonke the afternoon before his arrest.Ntsikelelo Gqirana told the court on Wednesday that Sizwe told me to hold his phone because he did not want to speak to his girlfriend.&#8221;Gqirana was traced by the police using Vumazonke s phone.Vumazonke s lawyer Peter Daubermann claims that the statement given by Gqirana varies from his testimony on Wednesday. Your version now varies from the version to the police,&#8221; said Daubermann.However Gqirana claims he never gave the police a detailed explanation on how he got the phone.Gqirana was questioned about the amount of phones Vumazonke owned and how Gqirana came to be in possession of it.State Prosecutor Marius Stander stated that Vumazonke and Gqirana were in regular contact. Looking at phone records there were 171 calls between Vumazonke and Gqirana,&#8221; said Stander.According to Gqirana, he and Vumazonke went to a tarven the night before he was arrested. He said he heard gun shots and ran, separating from the accused. Gqirana then later claims to have gone to the home of Vumazonke to go collect his phone which he left in Vumazonke s car and to return the other phone when he got arrested by the police.The alleged &#8216;triggerman&#8217; passed away last month. Police believe Vumazonke died of natural causes unless a post-mortem shows otherwise.The case of Christopher Panayiotou and his co accused continues at the Port Elizabeth High court. Panayiotou and his co accused are charged with the murder, robbery and kidnapping of his wife Jayde. They have pleaded not guilty.Jayde disappeared from her home in Port Elizabeth in April last year. Her body was found a day later in an open field in KwaNobuhle township.Meanwhile, South African Police Service Ballistics Captain Gideon Olivier testified on Tuesday that the three shots Jayde died from, would have left her paralysed had she survived.Jayde&#8217;s family, the Inggs, did not attend this session as ballistics showed the crime scene and gave details on how she was shot.The victim suffered from three entry wounds to top half of her back. There was an exit wound on the left side of her chest area and an exit directly under her right armpit. One bullet hit her spinal cord.-Aviwe Maxheke