A 12-year-old disabled boy from Dinokana village near Zeerust looks forward to attaining a good education despite having a delayed start to life due to his condition.Identified only as Tuelo, the boy cannot walk due to his disability. He needs a wheelchair to get around.Both his parents have died and because the family could not afford to buy him a wheelchair, he has been staying at home and only managed to enrol for Grade 1 at Bosugakobo Primary School this year.This came after he received a wheelchair. However, because Tuelo s family stay in a village, the wheelchair gets regularly damaged, creating more challenges for the boy and those who help him to move.Tuelo s plight came to the fore recently when renowned tour operator and award winning hiker Kagiso Legobe stumbled upon the boy and his heart was touched. I was going from one school to another for motivation and team building presentations. I then came across this broken wheelchair and I was told it was used by a 12-year-old boy from one of the schools in Dinokana. I learnt that the boy was in Grade 1 at his age apparently because his parents kept him at home as he can t walk by himself. I then started a campaign on Facebook to try to help out the situation, said to Legobe.A cheque account (031665969) in the name of Bosugakobo Primary School was opened at Standard Bank in Zeerust for well-wishers to donate money.Legobe said that he understood more ablout Tuelo s situation when he met him on the road. After spotting him crossing the road in his old wheelchair, I followed him to his home. There is a shack and an RDP house situated at the heart of Matshelapata section in Dinokana. I met his aunt who told me that the boy lost both his parents and has an eight-year-old sister. They depend on social grants for survival, he said.Tuelo told Legobe that when he finishes his education, he would like to be a teacher. The ongoing campaign for a wheelchair yielded positive results after Legobe received a promise. We have managed to secure a wheelchair for the boy. This came thanks to fellow hiker Kelebogile Moeletsi who referred us to one Kevin Rutter who runs an organisation called Fathers of Africa and has promised to donate a wheelchair before the end of this school term, he said.Legobe said that with a better wheelchair secured, the next development was to build a ramp at the school to allow for easy mobility for Tuelo as his quest for a better life continues.The response from the community was again overwhelming as Gaabomotho Foundation said it would provide money for the construction of the ramp.Money that has been contributed in the bank account will also be used to provide other necessities for Tuelo s family.Legobe thanked all those who have provided a hand of assistance in the life of the disabled boy. What inspires me is that the boy is excited at this chance and he says he can t afford to miss even a day at school, Legobe said.Elfas Toreraielfast@thenewage.co.za