The financial viability of municipalities and councillors accountability have been the two topics dominating the two-day conference of the South African Local Government Association (Salga) in the province this week.The conference ended yesterday with the organisation electing new office bearers to run its affairs in the province.The mayor of the Sol Plaatje local municipality, Mangaliso Matika, told the gathering yesterday the financial viability was a challenge facing municipalities.He said finances were important as they lead to service delivery initiatives and he wants to ensure the support received from Salga is directed towards service delivery initiatives. Salga is there to ensure municipalities function properly and effectively and to give support to them, he said.Matika said the conference would ensure all 36 municipalities within the province shared best practices that would help improve the delivery of services.MEC Alvin Botes called for closer ties and accountability to the people the councillors served. He said nepotism eroded community ties and undermined social cohesion, which the government is trying so hard to implement. He said the practice of nepotism needed all stakeholders to work together to ensure credibility in local government institutions. Nepotism may not easily lend itself to elimination through policy action but the practice itself can be discouraged through exemplary public behaviour and credible messaging, he said. The MEC said the reports by the auditor-general has revealed over the years that there were countless instances where people had been hired in positions for which they had no skills. Nothing has happened to remedy such inappropriate appointments. Instead, consultants have been hired at huge cost to the fiscus to perform functions for which individuals have been employed. Botes said enforcement of accountability was key to ensure service delivery was accelerated. Officials are simply not sanctioned for wrongdoing, it is as if malfeasance is condoned, which shows a failure of oversight or unwillingness to hold wrongdoers accountable. He urged all councillors to work towards bettering the lives of ordinary citizens and not enrich themselves. All money aimed for service delivery should be utilised correctly, corruption in municipalities hampers services. More than 200 councillors are attending the conference, which seeks to elect new leaders for the period of five years and also take stock from the local government elections. He said councillors only serve one five-year term and they are not guaranteed a renomination. This generates a propensity to build a nest egg in case they are not returned. And because many lack professional qualifications, finding a source of income outside of political office becomes a great anxiety. Botes urged politicians and officials to put their differences aside and put community needs at heart. There will only be effective leadership when two groups make sense of their different views and approaches and find common ground for leadership. Meanwhile, the outgoing Salga chairperson Willie Johnson, said great work had been done under his leadership. South Africa can be proud that it has a resilient local government in Salga, new mayors and councillors need to work hard to improve service delivery. Tiisetso Manoko and Nomusa Mvubunews@thenewage.co.za