The recent drought has left the iLembe district financially strapped forcing the new office bearers to implement austerity measures including returning their luxury Mercedes-Benz sedans for second-hand Toyota Fortuners.Ilembe, which is a water and sanitation provider and authority in the iLembe region, is presently faced with a cash crisis owing to its low levels of revenue collection as a result of the drought. The overall impact of the cost of drought to the district municipality is more than R150m.Newly elected mayor Sduduzo Gumede said that the drought had badly affected iLembe s revenue collection, water sales and supplies in all its four local municipalities, which include Mandeni and KwaDukuza. In simple terms, we could not get money because we were unable to provide a service and there was a drastic loss in revenue, the mayor said.He said that the overall cost of the drought to the municipality was about R158.6m which includes almost R70m spent on hiring water tankers to supply areas which did not have water and an estimated R54.1m loss of revenue.ILembe is presently enforcing the implementation of its revenue enhancement strategy which has seen a favourable improvement in the collection rate by 26% from 53% at the end of June 2016. The collection rate as at the end of September 2016 was at 73%. This has improved compared to the closing rate of 59% on June 30, Gumede said.He said that iLembe had begun implementing austerity measures and that a policy on austerity measures had been adopted by council as part of the municipality s comprehensive financial recovery plan. We are implementing the policy vigorously. We are also directly affected as councillors. For example, as political office bearers if we have a meeting outside of iLembe for example in Durban or Richards Bay we share a vehicle and we return the same day, he said.Gumede also indicated that the district had a total gross debt of R221.7m as at September 30. We cannot stress the importance of paying for services. This R200m owed to the municipality must be recovered in this financial year. We also have to cover our own bulk costs as we buy bulk water from Umgeni Water and others. If we are to carry on providing a service, people need to get into a culture of paying for it, he said.He urged those with debt to come forward so that this can be resolved, adding that they also had an indigent policy that caters for those who are too poor to pay.NOKUTHULA NTULI