Oakbay Investments said media reports alleging that prepayments from Eskom were used to help in paying the acquisition of Optimum Coal Mine by Tegeta Exploration &amp; Resources are factually incorrect and misleading.In a statement, the Group said it received media questions on speculation that the Business Rescue Practitioners for Optimum Coal Mine may have alleged that a pre-payment made by Eskom was inappropriately used to fund part of the consideration for the acquisition of the shares of the seven target companies which at the time belonged to Optimum Coal Holdings.But the firm rejected the allegations detailing facts around the issue of prepayment from Eskom. Tegeta received the pre-payment not Optimum. This is yet another inherently flawed attempt by media to create a sensational story out of nothing, it said.Eskom said it obtained independent intelligence of a potential protest action at Rietkuil and surrounding areas in December 2015, which increased the security of supply risk, prompting a declaration of an emergency. Continued monitoring of the security of supply risk from January to March revealed that Eskom needed to build up its coal stock requirements. Umsimbithi experienced strike action around this same time, which placed a further strain on stock levels, prompting an immediate need for additional coal, Eskom revealed.Ben Ngubane, Brian Molefe answer question on TegetaThe contents of the queries are wrong and factually incorrect. The vehicle that acquired the shares of the seven target companies that previously belonged to OCH was Tegeta.Oakbay said Tegeta has never been in Business Rescue, adding that the structure of Tegeta s consideration for the target companies, was not within the remit/scope of the Business Rescue Practitioners in any shape or form. Reports, according to the company are yet another inherently flawed attempt by media to create a sensational story out of what appears to be nothing .Tegeta had been supplying coal to Eskom since January 2016 on a short-term supply basis, and receiving payments for that supply.The pre-payment received by Tegeta in April 2016 from Eskom was for continuing supply, In other words, the pre-payment was perfectly legitimate and Tegeta was entitled to do with the proceeds as it saw fit.In April 2016, Umsimbithi and Tegeta, were approached to increase supply to mitigate the shortfall. Both suppliers were able to meet Eskom s requirements for additional coal quantities at the required coal quality which resulted in approval for the extension of both contracts by the Board tender committee on 11 April 2016.Eskom procured coal from Tegeta and Umsimbithi, who were the only companies able to deliver the additional tonnage of the required coal, to mitigate the risk of load shedding during winter. Tegeta indicated that the required coal quality can only be sourced if they divert their export quality coal to supply Eskom. In addition, there was an indication that additional equipment was needed to reach the required tempo of coal delivery to Eskom that would mitigate the shortfall.Tegeta mentioned these as factors that led the company to request a prepayment from Eskom. Umsimbithi indicated that they were able to supply additional coal with no additional resource requirements, the power utility added.Eskom did not have a contractual obligation to pay Optimum Coal Mine as asserted by the business rescue practitioners. The Eskom contract with Tegeta was concluded on the basis of an off-take agreement between Optimum Coal Mine and Tegeta. Hence the prepayment was paid to the contracting party being Tegeta. Optimum in turn supplied the coal to Tegeta and received payment from Tegeta, Eskom said in statement.It said pre-payment was agreed against onerous provisions including: a 3.5% discount in favour of Eskom, securities in place, due delivery of the required coal and strict quality compliance criteria. Tegeta could have obtained finance from any other source or business venture or bank we utilised the money as we deemed appropriate. This is not in any way, inappropriate. There was no need to inform Business Rescue Practitioners as our negotiations with Eskom has no bearing or relevance to them.The coal being supplied by Tegeta was being purchased from Optimum and for which we had separate agreements from time to time and Business Rescue Practitioners, who were in control of the business, were fully aware of this. We took the necessary steps to ensure increase in coal supply and even delivered prior to the deadline date, Oakbay added.Tegeta completed the acquisition of in April 2016 with the full approval of the Business Rescue Practitioners and other regulators. Optimum was also released from its business rescue status on 30 August 2016.Unions welcome Tegeta-Optimum merger approvalAccording to information from the holding company, Tegeta has not received any notification from any regulatory body that anything untoward has taken place in light of the allegations. The situation is quite clear and any suggestion that anything untoward has taken place makes no sense at all, Oakbay spokesperson said.Howa on #Tegeta coal supply to Arnot Power Station&nbsp;-TNA REPORTER