Students in the Northern Cape have been urged to consider careers as artisans amid shortages of the craft in the country.Higher Education Deputy Minister Mduduzi Manana said it was important for young people to choose careers that were going to benefit them in the future.The students were told about the opportunities in the industry during the two-day road show in Kimberley aimed at raising awareness to students in high schools and further education colleges across the province.Manana said the government would do everything in its power to get funds for young people to study, especially those who are academically deserving. We want to see all of you employed. We can only do that by getting you in TVET colleges in numbers, Manana said.He said the transformation of colleges to technical educational training is looking to boost the country crippling artisan, technicians and engineering sector. One engineer from a university can never perform any task without about four to five technicians, Manana said.The road shows are being held country wide in all the FET/TVET colleges where students are exposed to opportunities in the sector from industry big players. Much work is required to change the perception of South Africans in relation to vocational and technical careers, he said. Skills, such as electronics, mechanics and motor mechanics, require the application of discipline in order to succeed in those career fields. Manana said the department would continue with the national artisan development strategy consultative road shows in partnership with stakeholders and community members throughout the month until the end of November.He said the programme by the department has produced positive results thus far. Artisan development systems registered 28650 apprentices and produced 16110 competent artisans in the period at the end of March this year, he said.Much work has also been done to realise the government goal of achieving 30000 artisans by 2030. Effective career guidance is required to make pupils aware of the career opportunities related to artisan trades, he said.The road show is facilitated by department officials and FET/TVET lecturers. College qualifications are recognised by employers. TVET s offer full bursaries you do not need to pay it back unlike in universities, he said.Tiisetso Manokoprovinces@thenewage.co.za