EFF councillors at the Mahikeng local municipality were bundled out of a council sitting for an improper dress code on Monday.This was the second time the same councillors have been forcefully removed for wearing overalls and helmets to council.Heavily built bouncers escorted all 12 EFF councillors out and they missed Monday s council business.Council speaker Pontsho Tabane said he ordered the removal of councillors for failing to obey the council s standing rules and orders. I ordered the removal of EFF councillors from the council as they were disorderly towards the speaker. They wanted to collapse the council. They are so uncontrollable and don t become relevant when they discuss issues. They just want to tell us how to run the council outside the standing rules and orders of the council, Tabane said. They brought a motion which suggests that the council should not proceed. They were defeated 12 to 42 that s when they started being disruptive and failed to listen to the speaker. Tabane maintained that he would not allow anyone in the council to disobey the house s rules. They remain public representatives but they are not honourable. The rules will always be applied during council sittings. If they continue to disrupt council sittings they will be ejected, he said.EFF regional secretary Neo Morweng said: We called for the adjournment of the council because we wanted to correct some few errors of rules and standing orders. We wanted to discuss those rules but we were denied an opportunity to do so. We protested silently in council and the speaker ordered our removal from the council. On September 1, we were removed from the council and that was not in line with the rules and standing orders. The rules committee must sit and review the rules as there is misinterpretation, he said.Morweng said that should they be kicked out again, they would take the council to court. We are consulting with our lawyers in terms of this issue. We don t want to take the municipality to court as it will lose a lot of money which could have been channelled into service delivery. However, if the speaker continues to eject us we will be left with no choice but to take it to court. Our councillors will continue to wear overalls in the council despite our members being manhandled, assaulted and kicked out, Morweng said.Elfas Toreraielfast@thenewage.co.za