The use of the internet is expected to grow considerably over the next few years with the millennials (economically active young people) at the forefront. The next five years should usher in considerable online trend changes. Internet penetration in South Africa is sitting at roughly 50% of the population consider that this figure was at approximately 24% in 2010. Therefore we should see continued considerable growth over the next five years, at which point the youngest portion of the millennial generation will be more economically active, Ask Afrika CEO Andrea Gevers said.It is estimated that consumers in the country will be spending R59.6bn on internet access by 2017, an increase from R19.8n in 2014.Gevers cited improved access to social media, education and reduced technology cost as some of the driving factors behind this growth. Technology trends have improved significantly over the past 15 years just think of how capturing video on cellphones has revolutionised the news industry. Likewise, social networking has changed the way we shop and meet people. There is the lower costs of technology and the increased access to social media. Greater access to education and information is allowing for informed decision making in population segments that previously were marginalised from participating in the economy, she said. She said millennials have better internet access than other groups. When compared to the overall urban population, millennials are more likely to have accessed the internet over the past 12 months (56% vs 50%), more likely to connect to the internet through a mobile device (81% vs 76%),and more likely to use the internet for social networking (30% vs 27%) and instant messaging (26% vs 22%), she said.She said that given South Africa s high levels of unemployment, especially affecting young people, millennials in the country can t all be boxed together. Given South Africa s reported high inequality, using the millennial tag to define all South Africans aged 22 to 36 would be short-sighted. One would need to acknowledge the many socioeconomic influencing factors, she said.She said it was crucial for companies to keep up with the trends in order to continue making profits. Millennials are informed, economically active and highly connected any brand or company would be foolhardy not to understand, evaluate and target this combination. Knowing that millennials are more likely to be connected through mobile devices would assist companies to target their advertising campaigns in an efficient manner, she said.Zodidi Mhlanazodidim@thenewage.co.za