A meeting between labour, business and the government is expected to hear progress on the report of recommendations by the advisory panel tasked with setting an appropriate level at which to set the national minimum wage. Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said the federation expected the meeting by the Committee of Principles – representing the government, business, labour and community at the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) next week, to break the impasse between stakeholders on the matter. “We hope to break the deadlock and the report will be taken back to the social partners for consideration,” Pamla said. He said the back and forth debates on the level at which the wage should be set were: “We want R4500 and business is saying no, we can’t afford anything beyond R2000. We’ll reconcile business and labour on the issue.” Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa appointed the seven-member advisory panel to advise on an appropriate level at which to set a national minimum wage. In his state of the nation address on June 17, 2014, President Jacob Zuma called on Nedlac’s social partners under the leadership of Ramaphosa to address low wages, wage inequality, the national minimum wage and violent and protracted strikes. Pamla, making reference to the advisory panel’s report, said that if the report failed to appease the labour federation, Cosatu would not put a rubber stamp on it. “We expect them to come out with a decent figure, if they bring something that does not change people lives, well reject it,” he said. Cosatu also said it would seek an audience with the ANC at the tripartite political council meeting later this month, to lay bare its frustration on the snail’s pace the governing party has taken to introduce the wage. Nedlac spokesperson Kim Jurgensen said although the agenda for the meeting has not yet been adopted, feedback reports by the advisory panel and the labour relations technical task team on the national minimum wage was expected. “We expect a report from the labour relations task team and progress on the advisory panel.” Work on the national minimum wage began after the Nedlac Labour Relations Indaba on November 2014. The summit tasked a Committee of Principals, comprising of the government, labour and community to iron out the modalities of a national minimum wage and to determine measures to prevent job losses. Nedlac constituencies on the national minimum wage recently reached a deadlock, with Cosatu seeking a minimum wage of R4250/R4500 a month, with business and the government proposing R2000 and R2200 a month respectively. Added into the mix was a research report by the University of Cape Town, suggesting that a minimum wage would lead to job losses if set too high. Bonolo Selebano bonolos@thenewage.co.za