Provincial Premier Masualle commended the management of Emadlelweni Special Day Care Centre in Indwe and the caregivers for the good work they have been doing, saying it was an example of the Masiphathisane principles.Furthermore, Masualle committed to engage with the department of health and social development in finding therapists and teachers who are trained for special schools to contribute towards teaching the children at the centre. Masualle visited the centre that caters for 22 pupils with special needs aged between six to 25 years old in one small garage where he donated meal packs and blankets. We came here to determine the status of the centre and we did not want to arrive empty-handed because we wanted to show our dedication to helping the centre. We have brought food and blankets to be used here at the centre, he said.One of the parents at the school, Nothandiso Kakukani, said she was happy to finally see the premier coming to them to determine the status of the centre. Our kids are cramped up in a small garage that is unsafe and not conducive for teaching and learning. There is no space for them to play, the place is just too small, she said.Kakukani said teachers at the school were doing a good job as the pupils were showing signs of improving. Nomfundo Gxumisa, who is a teacher at the centre, said they were volunteering as most of the parents struggle to pay for school fees and that makes things difficult for operations of the school. Parents sometimes struggle to pay school fees and this means the kids to go home without having a meal for the duration of time they are here at school because there is no food. We have been seeking help from the government but only social development has funded us financially, Gxumisa said.Masualle visited the centre after parents wrote to his office sharing the challenges they face on a daily basis and asking for assistance.Excited Ibanathi Tshamba who received school shoes, said he was happy to see the premier and his entourage arriving at the school with gifts that put smiles on the faces of the people at the school. The visitors came with things like machines to do different things that are part of our learning and we are grateful that the premier and his team listened to us. We are very happy and thankful for what they have done for us, Tshamba said.Indiphile Boyceprovinces@thenewage.co.za