The 1000 government houses which have been built and remain unoccupied by the rightful beneficiaries have become a sore point for the provincial government, Premier David Mabuza said this week.The houses, which have been standing empty for nearly two years, are located in the Mbombela and Standerton areas. Mabuza is demanding answers from authorities in Mbombela and Lekwa.He wants to know why the 1000 houses were not occupied while scores of residents remain homeless.Mabuza, speaking at the premier s coordinating forum meeting in Mbombela this week, said the state of affairs in the concerned areas was not acceptable and he would not tolerate sloppiness, arguing that the empty house could be vandalised and could be wrongly interpreted as a failure by the provincial government to deliver services to its residents. Such behaviour is disturbing and tarnishing the name of the ANC-led government, Mabuza said. People are waiting for their houses and we are failing to explain to them why they cannot rightfully occupy their homes. If this is how we work as the government, it is disgusting and is behaviour that cannot and must not be tolerated, Mabuza said. This is what causes unnecessary conflict between us and our people. Are we really ready to govern? This is an indication of bad planning. It is clear that we used the land without taking into account other important factors such around integrated planning which is crucial in the development of human settlements. In the end we realise that people cannot occupy the houses because there are no basic services, Mabuza said. He said he expected a detailed response from the municipality leadership.The premier has asked Mbombela mayor Sbusiso Mathonsi and his counterpart in Lekwa to personally interact with the beneficiaries . I want the houses occupied by their owners immediately. Let us avoid these mistakes because they are unnecessary and costly. I need all the answers after which the respective mayors should go and explain to the people when they will be taking occupancy of their houses, Mabuza said.France Nyakafrancen@thenewage.co.za