The driver of the vehicle that killed five people aged between 18 and 35 and left others injured on the road between Hluvukani and Acornhoek near Bushbuckridge in the early hours of Sunday morning was allegedly under the influence of alcohol.He also did not have a drivers licence, the police said. The other five people who managed to survive the accident were still receiving medical treatment at Matikwane Hospital yesterday.The accident occurred while the victims were on their way home from a tavern when the driver of a bakkie lost control and crashed into them.Three of the deceased were certified dead on the scene and the other two later died in hospital. Mhala police spokesperson Const Sonile Usinga said the 24-year-old suspect was due to appear in the Mhala Magistrate s Court yesterday on charges of culpable homicide and drunk driving. It was discovered that the driver of the bakkie was drunk when he caused the accident and not even fit to drive because he does not have a drivers licence. So he had to be arrested on the spot and charged. His blood samples also confirmed that he was indeed drunk. He will soon appear in court and might face other charges, Usinga said.Joseph Mabuza, spokesperson for community safety, security and liaison MEC Pat Ngomane, said they were planning to have discussions with liquor outlet owners in the province.Mabuza said the department was worried regarding the increasing number of accidents that have claimed people s lives, especially young citizens. The MEC is expected to interact with the provincial liquor board about sanctioning the tavern where the victims were drinking before the accident, Mabuza said.He said Ngomane was due to visit the scene and the families of the deceased and the injured yesterday. The police are busy with the probe regarding the matter. The MEC has urged motorists to be vigilant in order to stay alive and save the lives of others. He further wished those injured a speedy recovery and conveyed condolences to the bereaved families. francen@thenewage.co.za