Microsoft made several announcements concerning its intention to bring 3D technologies to everyone at its latest Windows 10 event. The firm aims to bring affordable tools to the public at large, with a range of headsets and upcoming developments for Windows. The first step in Microsoft’s vision to bring 3D to everyone is to provide easy-to-use tools for capturing, creating and sharing in 3D for all Windows users. As a result, 3D will be fully integrated into a future update of the operating system (Windows 10 Creators Update), scheduled for spring 2017. The most noticeable change will be an overhaul of Paint, updating the long-serving drawing program to allow users to create and animate 3D images relatively easily, notably by transforming simple 2D drawings into three-dimensional images by means of a simple rotation tool. Office is also set to get new tools for handling 3D content, whether in Word documents or PowerPoint presentations. In addition, Microsoft is working with various manufacturers (Acer, Asus, Dell, HP, Lenovo) to bring a selection of virtual reality headsets to market, priced from $299. These will bring the 3D experience to any PC running the Windows 10 Creators Update, with no complicated setup and no external camera to install. Here, Microsoft clearly isn’t targeting the more elitist markets of the Oculus Rift and the HTC Vive, which require highly powerful computers to run. However, these products aren’t expected to land until Q2 2017. As well as moving into virtual reality, Microsoft has already caused a sensation in the field of augmented reality with its Hololens glasses, allowing users to interact with virtual reality elements inserted into real-world environments. Although previously only available in the US and Canada, Hololens is due to roll out to half a dozen other countries from November 2016. As yet, this isn’t a fully commercial device, however. It’s primarily intended as a development kit for professionals. The firm’s long-term aim is to develop applications as well as games to ensure broader appeal for the technology. Still, democratizing this kind of technology which is more ambitious than “classic” 3D will no doubt take a few more years. -Relaxnews