Despite a spike in the trade of endangered animals online, concerted efforts are being made to save these protected animals from being sold on the web. A resolution on cybercrime and wildlife crime was adopted at the 17th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to Cites which looked into abuse of the internet to drive illicit trafficking of wildlife. Some of the endangered animals and products often traded on the internet include exotic birds, reptiles, ivory, rhino horn and tiger bone. The International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW), which has done work on the subject, said wildlife cybercrime was a growing phenomenon. IFAW’S global wildlife cybercrime project lead Tania McCrea-Steele said: “It is a huge market, in many cases it’s not very regulated, we need to see more enforcement engagements. Many traders are able to profit from killing endangered wildlife. Many traders are able to access the internet without the fear of being caught and that’s a huge problem when we are dealing with high unprecedented numbers of poaching.” IFAW’s 2014 study found more than 33000 endangered and live animals worth $10m (R139m) were for sale over a six-week period in 16 countries. “That is just a tip of the iceberg. Everywhere we look, we always find trade and this is an international problem. It’s a severe problem because we are seeing links to organised crimes. Some animals are being killed to supply this demand,” she said. McCrea-Steele said differentiating between illegal and legal trade of wildlife on the internet was a challenge. “One of the challenges for example, we are finding ivory items for sale over the internet, but people are disguising them in a deliberate attempt to circumvent online market policies that ban the trade of ivory,” she said. The international criminal police organisation, Interpol’s Environmental Security and Illicit Markets assistant director David Higgins said that there was a high number of criminals using the internet to “exploit illegal wildlife trade”. “There are spikes in wildlife cybercrimes. We are working on building global capacities in order to be more preemptive on the use of the internet to wildlife crime and the trade of wildlife products globally,” Higgins said. “We are becoming more acute and capable of detecting it, the law is improving, the legislation is developing and our levels of consumption of wildlife is enhanced.” McCrea-Steele said they were pleased with how the matter was handled at the conference. “It was wonderful to see that level of support, you see countries like Nigeria, South Africa and the European Union all speaking in favour of tackling wildlife cybercrime.” China was one of the biggest markets in wildlife cyber crime. ZODIDI MHLANA|zodidim@thenewage.co.za