The ANC in the Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB)has said that while it regrets the events that led to violent clashes at a council meeting last week, it was the DA-led coalition to blame for the fiasco which left two councillors in hospital.Addressing the media, the ANC said that the violence was the culmination of ongoing quarrels between the two parties which began since the launch of the municipality s integrated development planning (IDP) public meetings a few weeks ago.The ANC said that in all the IDP meetings, ANC councillors had been marginalised, sidelined and ridiculed by the DA and its coalition partner UDM, which is represented by Mongameli Bobani, who is the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality deputy executive mayor under the coalition.The party, which now fills the opposition benches for the first time since 1994, said its ranks were unhappy because of an IDP meeting in Port Elizabeth three weeks ago where the DA allegedly accused ward councillor Xola Sobani of hijacking the meeting. The leadership of the ANC has been patient enough and tolerated the mistreatment by the DA-led coalition government, but they have constantly provoke the ANC on a daily basis. We are the opposition benches but we are constantly insulted specifically by mayor Anthony Trollip, ANC councillor Andile Lungisa said.He said that they had requested the speaker of the council to allow the ANC to make representations in the matter as they felt that the DA is on a mission to further dislodge the ANC even in the wards it won in the August 3 local government elections and deliberately wanted to divide local communities. Our plea fell on deaf ears and the last straw was for the DA bringing an item to council to discipline councillor Sabani and that we could not accept, he said. ANC NMB leader, Bicks Ndoni said the clashes began when two ANC councillors Lungisa and Makhi Feni tried to discuss the matter of Sabani with the speaker.An ANC female councillor was reported to have collapsed in the chaos and was also ferried to hospital. He said that the ANC had no knowledge about the security guard who fired shots during the council meeting and urged police to further investigate how a gun was brought into the council and all members of the ANC including its leaders would respect the investigation. ANC chief whip Litho Suka said the incident clearly showed that security personnel present at the council meeting were not properly trained as they could have handled the situation differently.The ANC also said that two councillors Lungisa and Makhi Feni have opened cases of assault and claimed that while they were at St Georges Hospital to see their injured colleague, Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Trollip verbally insulted and threatened them. I want to say that this must be the lowest point in the history of this council. I want to say that having shots fired means we cannot reach lower depths. I have no doubt that if shots had not been fired into the ceiling, what would have ensued would have been much worse than what we saw this afternoon, said Trollip The shot was not fired by chief whip Werner Senekal. There is an investigation. The round cartridge is available and will identify which firearm it came from, he said.provinces@thenewage.co.za