Kgololo Polelol, 30, grew up under the guardianship of his grandparents in Loopeng village in Kuruman.He also had extended family around him, loved singing and played makeshift musical instruments. But he never dreamt his music would be performed nationally.A choral musician, he never thought his passion would one day feed and sustain him either.He began singing in the church choir at the early age of seven and became a conductor of music when he was only 11 years old. He says he still conducts his church s choir.Polelo lights up when he talks about his upbringing, the humble village life and the bond he has with his family.He said his family loved music, which is what inspired him to move into the musical arena. He says his passion was really ignited in 2008. What stimulated my passion was that I grew up in a musical family where everyone would randomly sing in the house, at weddings and at funerals. There was just that homeliness about it and it sparked my enthusiasm for music, he says.Polelo says he still lives among his family in the same village he grew up in. I don t see myself living anywhere else. Polelo now says his dream is to market his talent so the world can hear him sing and hopes to one day perform internationally.He has performed in Limpopo, in Gauteng, at college graduations, weddings and funerals.He also auditioned for the Black Tie Ensemble in 2011 in the Johannesburg Theatre. They called him but by then, had gone back to Kuruman.He also entered SA s Got Talent in 2012 but only made it to the second round.Polelo did not stop there, he continued to chart different avenues and participated in the NC Talent Search where he won the musical category in 2011.He participated again in 2012 but by then, the name had changed to Northern s Got Talent.Polelo says he has given all that he has to music and does not want to give it up. He does it for a living and while he tried to do something else, he still continued to sing.Polelo says he has worked as an upholsterer and opened an upholstery company, which he ran for a few months but he continued to sing on the side. For me, music has always been something I do willingly and without pressure. I ts something inherent in me, he says.However, he said the music industry had proven a hard nut to crack . Opportunities in music go along with popularity and fame and so for now I am working towards getting my brand out there and letting people hear my music, he says.Polelo is a man of many talents. He opened another company called Angel of Opera where he is teaching five young kids to sing opera. Because I did not know how I was going to enter the teaching profession, I decided to rather open my own company and transfer my skills. I went to different schools, checked for the good voices and took them under my wing, he says. I do vocal training with them and this July, we performed at an event and I must say, it was successful, he says.Polelo says he himself has learnt a very important skill from Gideon Linde, a vocal coach, performer and conductor. Linde taught me a very unique technique in opera that I believe I will use all my life. He taught me a technique I believe will sustain me as a choral musician. I met him last year at the Northern Cape Transnet Rising Starz finals and he heard me sing. From then onward, we were joined at the hip , Polelo said. What I want now is to transfer all the skills I have to others who were once like me, he says.Nomusa Mvubunomusam@thenewage.co.za