The Minister of Trade and Industry, Dr Rob Davies, says the successes realised by Abagold was testimony that South Africa can grow jobs in the aquaculture and processing sector.Davies made this statement earlier this week while speaking in Hermanus during the Taking the DTI to the Factories campaign.The initiative was embarked upon by the DTI in partnership with Productivity SA to witness Abagold Ways s success since its uptake of the Workplace Challenge Programme. Abagold Way cultivates, produces and markets natural abalone. We need to unearth more of these opportunities and we need to move this work further forward. We look forward to strengthening this partnership and to helping Abagold become the gold standard in the global abalone farming industry. The programme we re celebrating is something called the workplace challenge. It s a programme supported by the national economic workplace labour council. The national productivity institute is part of that. Over the years they have supported 250 enterprises with about 500000 people. What happens is that there is a small contribution from the enterprise itself and a larger portion comes from the DTI through the skills for the economy programme. Abalone farming is a high value industry, which we have identified as part of our oceans economy strategy, Davies said.Abagold Way managing director Tim Hedges said that the Workplace Challenge Programme had made a big difference in the company and through its implementation the company was able to successfully increase its employee workforce from 323 in 2012 to 463 in 2016. As an organisation, we have been blessed in that we recently received the Exporter of the Year Award from the Cape Chamber of Commerce in recognition of our efforts. A lot of the accolades we have received from the industry have been great motivators, he said.In 2015, the DTI renewed the memorandum of agreement with Productivity SA as a programme management entity for the Workplace Challenge Programme. This aims to improve the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises through collaboration between employers and employees on issues such as developing common goals, implementing improvements that lead to a world class competitiveness and best operating practices. The CEO of Productivity SA, Mothunye Mothiba, said: At the heart of productivity is the elimination of obstacles. Over and above you can see that since Abagold joined the WPC programme their turnover has increased, their productivity has increased and the number of workers they employ has also increased. Vincent Cruywagen vincentc@thenewage.co.za