The family of the teenager who narrowly escaped death when his mud home was lashed by thunderstorms in Zakheni near KwaMhlanga at the weekend, is among the victims who are still in need of assistance from the Thembisile Hani local municipality.When The New Age arrived at the home of 14-year-old Kgaogelo Masemola on Sunday, his mother Rebone Masemola, 44, was crying and said they were scared to continue sleeping in the remaining part of the damaged shelter because it could collapse and endanger their lives.Masemola accused the municipality of failing them and putting their lives at risk after their repeated efforts to apply for an RDP house from the municipality were unsuccessful.She said her son was asleep when his bedroom s roof was blown away but he managed to escape unscathed after he screamed for help. I was also in bed with my four-yearold daughter when the heavy rain nearly killed my only son. I have to thank God for saving his precious life. I have blamed the municipality for ignoring us because our attempts to get an RDP house like other impoverished households have been ignored, Masemola said. The conditions under which we are living are really deteriorating. We are appealing to the premier of the province and human settlements MEC to intervene before this situation gets worse, Masemola said.Ward 4 councillor Andries Motena said he had already visited the family to assess the situation. I am aware of the plight faced by the Masemola s household and other families. I am helping them with the process of receiving RDP houses and temporary solutions will be provided to them. We urge them to remain patient, Motena said.Municipal spokesperson Simphiwe Mashiyane said the storm affected an undisclosed number of households in different areas. A disaster report will soon be compiled about the rain damage. The municipality is working together with the Nkangala district municipality and other stakeholders to assist the affected families, she said. France Nyakafrancen@thenewage.co.za