Dedication and hard work have been attributed as key factors that played a huge role in clean audits achieved by the provincial government.Premier Sylvia Lucas said her administration stood firm in identifying areas that needed improvement to reach the goal of clean audits in all departments.Auditor-general Kimi Makwetu commended the provincial government for obtaining clean audits in six departments and state-owned entities.Lucas said they would continue to work towards improvements in delivering quality services to the people of the Northern Cape within the confines of the financial management prescripts and ensure transparency and better accountability. I want to commend and at the same time encourage administrators to build on this achievement, she said. I want to recommit this provincial administration to exercise accountability and compliance in the execution of our duties. Lucas said greater oversight would be exercised by the executive and regular monitoring exercises would be conducted to assess progress on the resolutions made on improving the audit outcomes. Makwetu said best practices were implemented in 2015-16 in the majority of departments in the province. These departments have demonstrated discipline of accountability and this should serve as an example and motivation to others because there is overall oversight and leadership, Makwetu said.The departments that have improved their audit results include transport, safety and liaison, social development, office of the premier and the treasury. Accounting officers maintained an effective control management that prevented or detected and corrected breaches in internal controls timeously, Makwetu said. Makwetu recommended that the departments that received clean audits share practices with sister departments such as health, which provided services to the people. Improve the quality of performance reports by reviewing the completeness and the accuracy of the underlying records throughout the year, his report said.The report said officials found on the wrong side of the law were held accountable for their actions. Provincial legislature speaker Kenny Mmoiemang said the audit outcomes highlighted a significant improvement in the financial year under review, particularly the office of the premier and the treasury. The legislature, office of the premier and treasury are duty-bound to lead by example in maintaining clean audits and pursuing good governance in order to yield better results in service delivery, he said.Tiisetso Manokoprovinces@thenewage.co.za