The Ramotshere Moiloa local municipality from Zeerust has been rewarded for being the best improved municipality for the 2014-15 financial year.The municipality received an accolade at the Chartered Institute of Government Finance, Audit &amp; Risk Officer (Cigfaro) s 87th annual conference held in Durban recently.For the first time in many years, the municipality managed to shack off a history of disclaimer audit opinions and received an unqualified audit report.The award was based on the Auditor General s audit outcome for the 2014-15 financial year and its objective was to encourage municipalities to do more to get clean audits continuously and not regress.Speaking at the ceremony, Deputy Minister of Cooperative Government and Traditional Affairs Obed Bapela applauded the municipality for its achievement. These awards are based on nothing else but service delivery. I would like to encourage cooperation among all the stakeholders that make it possible to achieve our dream of building ideal municipalities, Bapela said. Most of our municipalities are rural and villages are on the tribal lands. When taking the projects to the villages, let s engage with the local authorities and our communities to work in harmony and avoid unwanted and unplanned service delivery protests. At the same time, the issue of compliance is very critical. Let us adhere to all the legislations and regulations in moving our municipalities to greater heights. Professionalism should not be compromised. Emphasis was also made on the Back to Basics tool launched in 2014 to accelerate and measure service delivery. It is a known fact that not all municipalities have welcomed the idea simply because they do not want to comply. All the five pillars are important in assisting us to build an ideal municipality where people will have access to all the basic services, Bapela said. The municipality mayor, Kereng Mothoagae, and council speaker Tiro Moiloa could not contain their excitement upon hearing the municipality s achievement. This award goes to the whole Ramotshere Moiloa team, our councillors, senior managers, all officials who made this possible especially the audit and risk committee (Arcom), who do oversight in all compliance reports. You have made us proud. Let s keep the fire burning, Mothoagae said.The award was presented by Bapela, Ethekwini metropolitan deputy mayor Fawzer Peer and Cigfaro chairperson Jane Masite. The awards were established to celebrate the outstanding achievements of municipalities and working tirelessly to improve communities. As we celebrate the achievements, I would like to congratulate all the winners and also look forward to seeing them again in 2017, Masite said.CIGFARO anticipated that all the municipalities would be motivated by the awards and improve in their performance and submit their entries for national recognition in future.Elfas Toreraielfast@thenewage.co.za