When it comes to losing weight, we only think of rigorous workouts. But ever thought how wonderful would it be if you were able to lose weight by incorporating an activity we hominids have been doing since our evolution. Walking. So what are you waiting for? If your lifestyle refrains you from hard core exercises, then this article is for you. Burn calories with these low-impact techniques to whittle your waistline! 1. Rack up 15,000 steps each day Be it through MapMyWalk or your fitness band, it&#8217;s suggested to keep a track of the number of steps you walk per day. Walking 15,000 steps per day might sound arduous at first but once you start working on it, it is very much doable. Intensifying your walk will not even lead to sore muscles. 2. Walk thrice a day for 20 minutes each Similar to eating meals in a day, it is suggested to have three 20 minutes walk instead of a long-stretch walk. In fact, walking 15-20 minutes after every meal helps in controlling blood sugar levels better than taking a long 45 minutes walk once in a day. So why not make the most of your time and walk in intervals rather than in one go? 3. Walking uphill While walking on an elevated path, you must have noticed that you get more exhausted and your heart beat increases faster. This is because while walking uphill you build more muscles, which help in increasing the metabolic rate. It is suggested to lean forward a bit and slow your pace while walking uphill so as to avoid unnecessary strain on your muscles. Be slow and steady and increase the frequency of these uphill walks to exploit it the most. After all, it&#8217;s the slow and steady who wins the race. 4. Drink green tea prior to walk A boosted metabolism can be a sure win-win for burning extra kilos. Green tea does exactly that. A perfect blend of caffeine and catechins together catalyze the fat-burning process, where the former is known to induce fat-burn by promoting thermogenesis and the later enhances fat oxidation. 5. Vary the pace and take one-minute interval break No one likes monotony, so does our bodies. Maintaining a steady rate while walking should be ruled out and walking at varied speed should be incorporated in your walking routine. Studies show that this change in practice can enhance calorie burn by 20 per cent. Also, try and include one-minute intervals in your walking routine, this will help you burn even more calories. 6. Include bodyweight exercises No doubt walking is an amazing exercise for your body, it is amazing for keeping your body going. And if walking is clubbed with bodyweight exercises, it can simply do wonders. Be it doing 15-20 squats, incline pushups or dips, these exercises help in increasing your heart beat leading to an amazing workout routine altogether. 7. Skip sugary drinks Do you think consuming dense sugary drinks like Gatorade do good to your workout routine? Well, shockingly, these drinks are a big no-no if undergoing less intense workout routine. This is because these sugary drinks actually provide you way more than the amount of calories burnt during a low-intensity workout. 8. Walk smartly Incorporating small walks wherever possible can be miraculous in getting in shape. Parking your car a bit far away from your door, taking staircases, ditching escalators, opting to walk instead of taking your car wherever possible can make you get that desired waistline you dream of. 9. Consuming the right amount of water According to a study, consuming more water speeds the rate of weight loss. In fact, increasing your water consumption by 1.5 liters per day can burn 17,400 calories in a year! 10. Coin a dynamic playlist Sneakers check. Music check. Dawn check. Morning breeze check. Ever done that? If not, then you are missing out on something really amazing. Music can have a soothing effect on your mind no matter what the situation is. It can act as a complete mood-changer and revitalize you in minutes. So when you step out for a walk next time and you don&#8217;t have a walking companion, make music your friend. Make a zestful playlist which will help you keep going and also in keeping the energy alive. You would be shocked to notice that with your earphones on, you can cover those extra miles so easily that you would not even know.&nbsp;This article first appeared on The Times of India