The African National Congress(ANC) and its youth league on Monday congratulated the best team in Africa Mamelodi Sundowns after becoming the second team in Southern African footballing history to win the CAF Champions League. &#8220;The Chloorkop-based Downs produced a legendary performance to make us, South Africans, and the entire SADC region very proud. These success, elevates the South African football to greater heights,&#8221; ANC n ational spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said.&#8220;The ANC further wishes Mamelodi Sundowns all the best as they will be representing the African continent at the 2016 FIFA Club World Cup, to be hosted in Japan, from the 8th to the 18th of December 2016 . We have no doubt that their spectacular performance will again prevail on the World stage. The sky is the limit,&#8221; Kodwa said in a statement. Words from the Coach and some few words fell the Minister &#8211;Thankyou Sundowns #CAFCLFinal pic.twitter.com/jHBEY64Czj RSA Min of Sport (@MbalulaFikile) October 23, 2016The ruling party thanked Mamelodi Sundowns President Patrice Motsepe, Coach Pitso Mosimane, the entire Technical Staff, and players for the &#8220;determination and commitment&#8221; and being crowned the best team on the African continent.Although they lost the game by a goal to nil, the defeat in Alexandria was irrelevant as the teams 3-0 win at home was enough to get the job done in the two legged affair. The team&#8217;s defence did the job on the night even after star goalkeeper Dennis Onyango was stretched off after he sustained an injury early in the first half of the game. SKY IS THE LIMIT FOR MAMELODI SUNDOWNS @Masandawana pic.twitter.com/JDKNMwah8I MyANC (@MYANC) October 24, 2016 Down&#8217;s win has put pride in a nation that last got any form of continental glory in 1996, when the South African National team, Bafana Bafana won the African Cup of nations. And Orlando Pirates won the CAF Champions League the previous year, the only team to do so in SADC. The ANCYL made a clarion call for South Africans to come in their numbers to support the history making club. Best coach the country has ever seen &#8211; says the President of Sundowns. pic.twitter.com/3qDal26MVB RSA Min of Sport (@MbalulaFikile) October 23, 2016&#8220;This is no small achievement since we last celebrated this victory and achievement in 1996. The ANCYL fully appreciates that when Mamelodi Sundowns was crowned the Team of the Year in 2015 , it was not a mistake! the ANCYL said. The youth league wished Mamelodi Sundowns F.C. all of the best for the rest of this season and called upon all the teams that will represent the country in any competition from now onward to emulate Mamelodi Sundowns. The League challenged all our teams to keep this cup within our boarders at least for the next 10 years, even if it means rotating the cup among themselves here in South Africa. As the ANCYL, urge all teams who are competing in the ABSA Premier League to double their efforts in promoting local football so as to contribute to the development and harnessing of local talent which our National team can use in international competitive games, especially since we have not been doing too well on this front. As the saying goes, Local is lekker! ANCYL added. Congratulations to @Masandawana for winning the 2016 CAF Champions League. #SouthAfricaOnceAlways Orlando Pirates FC (@Orlando_Pirates) October 23, 2016 Meanwhile President Jacob Zuma with pride, congratulated the heroics performed by Mamelodi Sundowns, by Lifting the trophy in Alexandria Egypt on Sunday . It is indeed a glorious moment in South Africa and we congratulate Mamelodi Sundowns players, technical team and its entire management for representing us very well in this historically difficult continental championship and earned South Africa another star. We are extremely proud of Sundowns for their remarkable achievement and we firmly believe that this excellent performance will take South Africa to higher levels in the international football fraternity, the President said. Congratulations MAMELODI SUNDOWNS; congrats Champions of Africa!You have done the whole of Mzansi proud.!!@SAFA_net Bafana Bafana (@BafanaBafana) October 23, 2016TNA Reporter