The department of education has come out strongly against cheating during the much awaited 2016 matriculation examination.The department has taken it even further by saying that no cellphones were allowed during the final Grade 12 tests. Education MEC Martha Bartlett said those who were found in possession of cellphones would be sanctioned. Those who will be sanctioned include those found copying from notes or textbooks or any other unauthorised material or from a fellow candidate; those receiving any help from a teacher or a friend during the writing of the examination; those who don t hand in your annexure for subjects like mathematical literacy and those using a friends exam number or a wrong exam number and; those who do not sit according to the seating plan, Bartlett said.Bartlett urged pupils not to accept imposed answers. If you accept answers imposed on you, the following will be the consequences. The imposed answers will definitely be detected at the marking centre. The system has advanced ways of detecting such answers, she said. Your results in the implicated subject/paper will be blocked for further investigation. The investigation and hearings are a long process which may be concluded only after the opening of tertiary institutions, she said. Bartlett said the department had tightened their strength against cheating in exam rooms and now there would be tougher consequences to go with them. If you are found guilty of accepting imposed answers, your results will be declared null and void. You may be barred from writing the National Senior Certificate examination for a period of one or two or three years, depending of the decision of the chairperson of the hearing committee, she said. Bartlett said those pupils would be given an opportunity to appeal the decisions taken by the hearing committee. This is another long-drawn process which will further delay your results. While waiting for the outcome of your appeal, your peers will be continuing with their tertiary education studies. The fact of the matter is that you may lose one year of your plans or even two or three years depending on the outcome of the appeal process, she said.Bartlett said the province hoped to reduce any irregularities and also ensure that pupils achieved the desired 100% during the 2016 matric results. The MEC insisted all schools sign an pledge to honour the commitment for a irregularity-free approach.Nomusa Mvubunomusam@thenewage.co.za