After considering retirement numerous times, Banyana Banyana star midfielder Amanda Dlamini says the thought is gone and her focus is to make her country proud. Dlamini, from Harding in KwaZulu-Natal, said her reasons for thinking about hanging up her boots were because she needed a more secure career than football. In 2013, Dlamini shocked many when she resigned as the national team captain and cited her need to fully commit to her transport management studies. “I have thought about retiring for quite a number of years now but I’m still hanging on because I feel I can still play for the country,” Dlamini said. “I think aside from football I have my own dreams and aspirations where I would like to grow into business or go into the corporate world because of the studies I did at university.” At the moment the country doesn’t have a professional league for women’s football and that might have been one of the reasons behind the 28 year old’s thinking. “In South Africa you never have a solid and lucrative football career once you pass the age of 30. “Yes, I’m still in my 20s but I am looking at what the future holds for me in terms of a career and the doors that have opened for me and how I can maximise on those while still playing. “But at the same time, I don’t want to give an unfair performance to the national team where I am not giving 110%, like I normally do. So for me now is to play the last few years that I still have in my legs and make my country proud.” Dlamini has represented Banyana and brought home bronze and silver medals from the 2010 and 2012 African Women’s Championships. She also represented South Africa in two Olympics in London in 2012 and recently in the 2016 Rio Olympics. But Dlamini didn’t play any bigger role in former coach Vara Pauw’s Rio team despite being one of the most experienced players. Dlamini featured only twice, coming as a substitute in the last two matches in Brazil. “I just think every coach has his or her own philosophy and preferences in terms of selection. “And in competitions like the Olympics experience is good but sometimes you need to have the young blood coming in. “The coach made her own decisions based on how she wanted to field against the teams she was playing.” Dlamini is in France for the Danone Nations Cup as the SA ambassador and has not been included for Banyana’s friendly against Egypt. sithembisod@thenewage.co.za -Sithembiso Dindi