Days of pupils at Mxhume Secondary School in Ndindindi Village outside Lusikisiki in the Eastern Cape attending classes in dilapidated classrooms are over.The department of basic education, through the Accelerated Schools Infrastructure Development Initiative (Asidi), will hand over the improved R49m today. The principal of the school, Aaron Lindy, said the small community of Ndindindi village were overjoyed because, as the community, they know the difference the new facility will have for the future. Parents are very happy that the school has now been built something we ve been calling for since 2000. We thank the department of basic education for Asidi that seeks to do away with mud schools, he said.After handing over the Mxhume Secondary School, the department will hand over the R22m Luxeni Secondary School in Manditshe Village outside Mthatha in the Eastern Cape tomorrow. The handovers will bring the number of state-of-the-art schools built as part of Asidi since the inception of the programme in 2011 to 177, with 133 of the schools built in the Eastern Cape, the department of basic education said. The initiative has provided water to 617 schools, sanitation to 425 schools and electricity to 307 schools that previously had no access to these basic amenities. Asidi s Albert Gumbo said the initiative continues to deliver a dividend of democracy to communities across the country, providing stateof-the-art schools to rural and urban underprivileged education that meet the minimum norms and standards for education infrastructure in South Africa. He added that this level of investment in education infrastructure is unprecedented on the continent. Lindy said parents and teachers at large are very excited. We urge everyone who has a child to send them to school because we have classrooms that are conducive to learning and teaching. Mxhume Secondary School has 585 pupils from grade 8 to grade 9 for now, the principal said. Pupils that we are dealing with here at school are kids from disadvantaged backgrounds and they depend on social grants from the government. Most of them are orphans who depend on foster care grants. We get help from the nutrition programme in our school that help us feed these kids, Lindy said.He said Mxhume school is a no-fee school, and are thankful to the government for that too. We wish that this Asidi can go forward and eradicate more mud schools in the Eastern Cape, Lindy said.The principal said the department of education is also working on beefing up the number of teachers at the school, as nine teachers are set to join Mxhume in January 2017.indiphileb@thenewage.co.za