Despite turbulent times at universities in the province a group of Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) students perseverance paid off when they held an event at the weekend to raise awareness of lupus.The event called Hello Lupus giving the autoimmune disease recognition, speaks directly in addressing the issue and attempting to assist in creating awareness of the disease. The event was held at the weekend in Lansdowne.A group of 10 CPUT third-year students studying events management as part of their subjects was instructed in mid-July to host an event that was cause-related. The group said the event had been inspired by one of their colleagues, Linsey Visser who was diagnosed with lupus during September 2014, but she d lived with the disease 10 years before it was accurately diagnosed.Visser said: The aim of the event is to inspire and teach our attendees about the disease as well as preventative measures. We had sessions teaching on all aspects of the disease. Our target audience will be patients with lupus, those affected by the disease as well as attendees. Lupus is an autoimmune disease where the body s immune system becomes hyperactive and forms antibodies that fail to recognise the difference between a virus, bacteria and a healthy body s organs. This results in the attack of healthy organs, cells and tissues including the skin, joints and internal organs such as the heart and lungs.The disease is not infectious and it is difficult to diagnose as it mimics other illnesses. There is no cure for lupus and it cannot be prevented but it can be managed with medication and a healthier lifestyle.On whether the wave of student protests impacted on their preparation the group said: The recent protests did not directly affect our planning and preparing as we did not have to attend class to do this. However, meeting up with the rest of the team became a job on its own as we have been far away from the university and as discreet about everything as much as possible. Visser was still studying and was trying to live a normal life with her fellow students. The group lauded Visser, saying with a brave face, she had to confront and embrace each day as it came.Vincent Cruywagen vincentc@thenewage.co.za