If you are in need of medical treatment at the weekend, especially on a Sunday at KwaMhlanga Hospital, you will be examined and discharged without receiving medication and instead told to collect it the following day.This was revealed during a visit by The New Age to the hospital where we found the pharmacy closed.The disgruntled patients, who were informed by the health personnel to go home and return to collect their medication yesterday, accused hospital authorities of undermining their right to access healthcare services and demanded answers from the health MEC, Gillion Mashego, regarding the matter.Mavis Mahlangu said her four-year old daughter sustained a fractured hand at home while playing with her friends. They were referred to the hospital by the local clinic.Mahlangu said she was shocked when she was told by the nurses her daughter could not get medication because the pharmacy did not function on Sundays. The nurses instructed me to return to the hospital tomorrow to fetch the painkillers and other related medication. It is clear that the hospital does not care about our rights to access appropriate healthcare services Mahlangu said. Imagine going to hospital with the aim of getting medication but returning home empty handed. We demand answers from the health department in the province since this action is putting our lives at stake Mahlangu said.Peter Matlala, a patient, said: We cannot spend money travelling to the hospital and not getting medication. Both the hospital and health department must think about our travelling costs and lives and ensure that we have access to medication 24 hours a day. A source at the hospital told The New Age the pharmacy did not open on Sundays because staff members were not being paid overtime by the provincial health department. The unpaid overtime salaries compelled us to close the pharmacy and other sections. The matter is seriously affecting the patients because they have to return home without getting medication. We cannot work without being paid, the source said.Written enquiries were yesterday sent to the health MEC spokesperson, Dumisani Malamule, and his communication officers Chris Nobela and Ntokozo Skonela but no response had been received at the time of publication.France Nyakafrancen@thenewage.co.za