The Bakgatla ba Kgafela paramount chief Kgafela Kgafela II, is expected to be cross-examined by lawyers representing chief Nyalala Pilane at the Maluleke commission.The commission, headed by retired judge George Maluleke, resumes this week. It is investigating who is the rightful ruler of Bakgatla in Moruleng near Pilanesburg National Park.The commission is also investigating who is the legitimate heir to control the assets and financial affairs of the tribe. So far Kgafela is the only one who gave evidence before the commission adjourned at the end of last month.Before the commission adjourned, he questioned the validity of chief Nyalala Pilane s legal team to represent him at the Maluleke commission.The team told Maluleke that they represented the royal family and the traditional council, which Kgafela argued against. Kgafela wanted to find out if the legal team had a mandate from the tribe to represent them. They do not represent Nyalala Pilane but they claim to represent chief Nyalala Pilane, the traditional council and the royal family. That means they should have received a resolution from the tribe but I am very sure that they did not get a resolution from the royal family, Kgafela said.In his evidence he gave the financial statements of the money that his office in Mochudi in Botswana has been getting from mining royalties in South Africa. The money we got is about R14m in three years, from 2010 to 2012 and was meant for the sustenance of the paramount chief and to run his office. That happened through the resolution I had with chief Nyalala. We also agreed to refurbish the royal house in Mochudi and buy a vehicle for the paramount chief but that never materialised, Kgafela said.He said that chief Nyalala Pilane had allowed the mining companies to mine on the Bakgatla s farms without the tribe benefiting. He is the only one, he and his friends and people surrounding him are benefiting. In some instances in the mines that the Bakgatla has shares in, Nyalala and his friends represent the tribe as the directors and without any resolutions by the Bakgatla, Kgafela II said.He said that he was aware there were monies paid to Nyalala that did not benefit the tribe. There is about R4.3bn which was paid by the Investment Development Corporation for the shares in one of the mines. We know that the money was paid but not a single cent went to the Bakgatla, Kgafela said.Kgafela, who is the son of kgosi Linchwe II, announced in January that Rampho Pheto was the acting chief.Pilane has been a regent since 1996 following a court battle between the late paramount chief kgosi Linchwe II based in Botswana and kgosi Tidimane in Moruleng. Kgosi Tidimane wanted his son Merafe to be the paramount chief in his own right in Moruleng.He argued that Botswana and South Africa were two separate sovereign states. Pilane has been constantly challenged in court as the ruler in Moruleng. The court battles are believed to have cost the tribal authority millions of rands.At one stage Pilane resigned but immediately reoccupied his position. He leads the 350000-member Bakgatla ba Kgafela community consisting of 32 villages. The commission is expected to finish its work in March next year.Elleika Dire provinces@thenewage.co.za