Outgoing Public Protector Thuli Madonsela leaves behind a R750 000 debt owed to G-Fleet for the repairs to a state vehicle crashed by her son in 2012. Sources at G-Fleet and the Public Protector’s finance department confirmed the debt had since accumulated interest and stood at more than R750 000. G-Fleet, which provides fleet management services to the state, including for the public sector, bore the cost of repairing her official BMW X6. It sent several letters of demand and invoices to Madonsela to no avail, the sources claim. According to both sources, the initial amount quoted for fixing the car was about R470 000 and not R100 000 as initially reported. “We received several letters of demand and invoices from G-Fleet but the public protector was seemingly not interested in settling that bill,” a source in the public protector’s finance department said. “We also couldn’t settle it because the car was driven by an unauthorised family member at the time of the accident.” Thuli’s car repair bill riddle  Madonsela’s son, Wantu, 27, drove into the garden wall of a house on Lucky Bean Crescent near Moreleta Park in Pretoria. After the accident, he said he crashed the vehicle while trying to avoid a dog. According to the judges’ handbook, which applies to Madonsela, her son could only drive it when the Public Protector was a passenger in the car. A G-Fleet source said: “We started sending invoices in mid-2012 but up to today we are yet to receive the money and it’s been accumulating interest.” G-Fleet finance director Thulani Mkwanazi refused to be drawn into commenting on the matter. “I’m not able to give a comment on that issue.” The source in the public protector’s finance department said that at some point Madonsela was advised to pay the money in instalments of R13 000 or have it deducted from her gratuity, expected to be in the region of R4m, but she allegedly refused. Her spokesperson, Oupa Segalwe, yesterday insisted that “the attorney general examined her conduct on the matter and found no wrongdoing”, hence her decision not to pay.
He said she had donated R30 000 towards the repairs but did not know who that money was paid to. “The PP was asked questions several times regarding the matter by AG staff that were auditing our affairs and she responded, hence the statement that the AG looked into the matter and no adverse findings were made against the public protector,” Segalwe said. However, the AG’s office yesterday reiterated that Segalwe’s statement was incorrect. “The attorney-general of South Africa did not investigate the subject of your inquiry as this matter had no impact on the public protector’s financial statements,” AG spokesperson Africa Boso said. TransformRSA yesterday said it would lead the process of opening up a case of car theft against Madonsela’s son. The organisation wants criminal charges laid against the protector’s son and herself in a personal capacity for her role in obstructing the ends of justice. “This is absolutely a disgrace and it brings her office into disrepute,” a statement read. “Furthermore, her conduct undermined the oath of the office of the public protector and above all the Constitution of the Republic of SA as she has the
constitutional mandate to act against any criminal activities constituted by public officers.” MTHOKOZISI DUBE| mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za