The Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) will today resume its academic activities after it suspended classes yesterday in order to give parties in the mediation process time to finalise their consultations.The institution said yesterday that in keeping up with the official mediation process ordered by the high court and in efforts to restore normalcy, the institution has engaged in protracted negotiations with the student leadership. While reiterating that the university remains open, we acknowledge that the mediation process is now at a critical and sensitive stage. Therefore, we deemed it necessary to suspend teaching activities planned for October 24 in order to give parties in the mediation time to finalise their consultations. The outcome of the mediation will be communicated as soon as the process is finalised and teaching activities shall resume on October 25, NMMU said in a statement.This comes after the NMMU #FeesMustFall movement ceased fire on Friday after two female students were kidnapped and raped by a taxi driver.It is alleged that the two students, aged 18 and 20 years old, boarded a taxi to the central business district and the driver did not stop at the destination but drove off to Kwazakele where they were allegedly raped at a house. The taxi driver failed to stop at their destination but instead drove them to Kwazakele. One of the victims was allegedly raped before the driver brought them back to the CBD. The driver then drove with them around the CBD before taking them back to Kwazakele where both females were allegedly raped at a house, police spokesperson Col Priscilla Naidu said.Naidu said the students were then dropped off at a bus stop the following morning. They reported the case at SAPS New Brighton. Police are investigating a case of kidnapping and rape. Anyone who can assist in tracing the suspect is asked to contact Det-WO Machewula at the Port Elizabeth FCS unit. His contact number is 071 352 4644. NMMU #FeesMustFall said the two students were raped while escaping the volatile situation on campus. It would be wise for us to have concrete actions to complement this statement regarding the rape of two fellow NMMU students who were fleeing the volatile situation on campus. In that regard, we would like to propose that there be a ceasefire, the NMMU #FeesMustFall movement said. This must not be mistaken as a suggestion of us abandoning the call for free education. The ceasefire will be only for today. Having two women raped as a result of the unrest unfolding on campus is alarming and needs to be taken for the seriousness that it deserves. In the meantime, we will be trying our best to find ways to bring those at fault to book and to provide necessary support to our two sisters in arms. The institution expressed shock over the incident and said support measures in the form of counselling would be made available to the students. NMMU is also extremely saddened by the news of the rape of two of its students, allegedly by a taxi driver. The university does not take these incidents lightly and support measures will be made available, NMMU said.Indie Boyceprovinces@thenewage.co.za