Six people were arrested for drug-related and other serious crimes in a clampdown led by North West police commissioner Lt-Gen Baile Motswenyane in Mahikeng.The operation started on Friday and was meant to dent the drug scourge that has affected Mahikeng suburbs in the recent past.Some police officers were on the ground and a helicopter hovered above the city in case that back-up was needed.North West police spokesperson, Brig Sabata Mokgwabone said that arrests were made in Motlhabeng village, Golfview, Danville and Unit 6. The operation was aimed at curbing drug trafficking and was led by the provincial commissioner, Lt-Gen Baile Motswenyane. It resulted in the arrests of six suspects for various offences. The suspects were arrested through the assistance of members of the community who provided information about suspected drug dealing activities, he said.Mokgwabone said that one of the people was arrested in Motlhabeng village after the police found him in possession of dagga when they searched his place. The police also arrested a robbery suspect after being pointed out to them by the victim. In Golfview, 58-year-old and 32-year-old Nigerian nationals were arrested for cultivating dagga. That was after the police found dagga growing among spinach when they conducted a search of their place.The fifth suspect was arrested for illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. This was after he failed to account for two hunting rifles, a shotgun and ammunition that was found at his place of residence. Another suspect was nabbed in Golfview after being found in possession of dagga, he said.All six suspects are expected to appear in the Mmabatho Magistrate s Court today.During the operation, police seized items like dagga plants, two hunting rifles, a shotgun, ammunition and dagga. The police in Bokone Bophirima have been working hard in the fight against drugs and this became evident when two suspects were arrested with drugs suspected to be Mandrax tablets worth millions of rands were discovered in April at Kopfontein port of entry. In another drug bust incident, the police discovered a drug laboratory at one of the farms in Boons two weeks ago, Mokgwabone said.Motswenyane welcomed the arrests.She said that the operation would send a clear message that the police would leave no stone unturned in their fight against drugs, particularly in Mahikeng, where members of the community previously complained about drug peddling.She also thanked community members for working closely with the police in clearing Mahikeng of drugs and other criminal activities.Elfas Toreraielfast@thenewage.co.za