Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has lauded Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza regarding his capabilities in leading the provincial government, especially in the field of finance.Gordhan visited the province on Tuesday. He revealed his satisfaction about the way in which the funds of the provincial government were handled during a media briefing. Gordhan, Mabuza and his executive council held discussions over a number of issues.Among others, the significance of the minister s visit in the province was to discuss the arrangements made by the national Treasurer regarding the budget to be allocated to the province for the next three years. What is commendable is the premier s pro-active approach that says we are now living in challenging economic environment with no abundance of fiscal resources available . Therefore, we must live within our means as a provincial government and we must undertake as many savings as we can. We must not put unnecessary pressure on the national fiscal, Gordhan said.The minister said the province s finances were pleasing despite the fact that they still needed to pay attention to certain issues. He also said the province had a huge economic potential particularly in the field of tourism.Mabuza said the country s economy was seemingly not in good condition. Therefore, it was vital for his province to always ensure that its budget was being utilised accordingly to meet the needs of the citizens and other key purposes. The country s economy was definitely not going into recession but it was not doing well either. This required both the national and provincial governments to work together to improve growth prospects by making it an inclusive economy. On the other hand, since the economic environment was not in good shape, there was a need for the provincial government to be creative with its finances such as avoiding wastages, Mabuza said.He acknowledged that the province s fiscal allocation would be cut and this would have a negative impact in rendering services. We must act responsibly and all of us must live within our means and eat less. It is possible, Mabuza said.France Nyaka francen@thenewage.co.za